55 ContributorsLuv(sic) Lyrics[Intro: Bill Cosby & Shing02]
I told you that story to tell you this one
Check this out, this goes out to my G
[Verse 1: Shing02]
Lovesick like a dog with canine sensitivity
Developing this new theory of relativity
Connecting our souls resting in captivity
Positive life sacrifice what it is to me
Our history, only a quarter of a century
Reality, sitting on the shoulders of our chemistry
See, ain't no mystery
The colors that we mix will set the mind free
Let the blind see beyond harmony
Breathe life into dead space blow away your clouds of doubt
New territory we determine to be
Everything a safe haven it's supposed to be
Now it might seem distant but the time is near
When our thoughts take off and split the atmosphere
Pure sound wave travel semi-infinitely
Plus I'll see you there utmost definitely

[Chorus: Shing02 & Richard Pryor]
'Cause the beat plus the melody
Makes me speak of L.O.V.E. eloquently, so evidently
(I mean that from my heart 'cause you make me feel good as a person)
'Cause the beat plus the melody
Makes me speak of L.O.V.E. eloquently, so evidently
You might also like[Verse 2: Shing02]
Good gracious, every process has a genesis and ends with a revelation
God bless this opportunity for me to find a voice
For some words that have waited for way too long
Low wages, small tips on the avenue
Never wasted, all hits for a revenue
Haven't you heard the news lately?
Seems we've been living for some time in a purgatory
But yo, I thought I knew what a love song sound like
But I felt a warmer tune in the sunlight
I could still hear it in my room past midnight
Gotta move, take a solo cruise in the moon light
Sometimes I do forget, oh how much we could ease the lives we lead
If we learn to let go, the reins that we hold
Return to our souls, and the spirit let flow
So you see, upon everyday faced there's a million shades to
Express definition of grace
But the method I choose my prerogative
There's so much love in me I got to give

[Chorus: Shing02, Richard Pryor & Jeru the Damaja]
'Cause the beat plus the melody
Makes me speak of L.O.V.E. eloquently, so evidently
(I mean that from my heart  'cause you make me feel good as a person)
'Cause the beat plus the melody
Makes me speak of L.O.V.E. eloquently, so evidently
(I hope that you listen)
[Verse 3: Shing02]
Oh, how I could write a book on how you make me feel
But how about this song that I wrote for you?
What I feel like, I wanna put my trusts in these simple words
For you to feel what I'm saying, what you feel like?
Reminisce about the little episodes that we shared together
Remember the time that you told me
In the cold night, to relax when all I knew was to hold tight
Remember the time that I spoke to the crowd in a full house and
Realized that you was my ace?
I was the joker on the stage singing the blues
All eyes on me and had nothing to prove
But yo, I thought I knew what a diamond shine like
But I felt a sharper love in the limelight
From the queen of hearts watching me quietly from the upper deck balcony
Sometimes I do suspect
I'm an actor in a well-scripted live divine comedy
When I look back, that frozen slice of time
And try to defrost the senses lost
Now enough with the metaphors
The motivation that I wrote this letter for
For you to know that the music helps carry on
Like you say, a new day will bring us tomorrow

[Instrumental Break]
[Chorus: Shing02 & Richard Pryor]
Yo, 'cause my beat plus your melody
Makes me speak of L.O.V.E. eloquently so evidently
'Cause your beat plus my melody
Makes me speak of L.O.V.E. eloquently so evidently
'Cause my beat plus your melody
Makes me speak of L.O.V.E. eloquently so evidently
(I mean that—I mean that from my heart 'cause you make me feel good as a person you know)
'Cause your beat plus my melody
Makes me speak of L.O.V.E. eloquently so evidently
(I mean that—I mean—I mean that from my heart 'cause you make me feel good as a person)
(You know what I mean? Makes me say, "Well, that shit wasn’t that bad")45Embed