5 ContributorsFinnegan’s Wake (Chap. 2.2) LyricsAs we there are where are we are we there from tomtittot to teetootomtotalitarian. Tea tea too oo.
With his broad and hairy face, to Ireland a disgrace.SIC.
Whom will comes over. Who to caps ever. And howelse do we hook our hike to find that pint of porter place? Am shot, says the big-guard.1

IMAGINABLE ITINERARY THROUGH THE PARTICULAR UNIVERSAL.

Menly about peebles.
Whence. Quick lunch by our left, wheel, to where. Long Livius Lane, mid Mezzofanti Mall, diagonising Lavatery Square, up Tycho Brache Crescent,2 shouldering Berkeley Alley,
Don’t retch meat fat salt lard sinks down (and out).
querfixing Gainsborough Carfax, under Guido d’Arezzo’s Gadeway, by New Livius Lane till where we whiled while we whithered. Old Vico Roundpoint. But fahr, be fear! And natural, simple, slavish, filial. The marriage of Montan wetting his moll we know, like any enthewsyass cuckling a hoyden3 in her rougey

1 Rawmeash, quoshe with her girlic teangue. If old Herod with the Cormwell’s eczema was to go for me like he does Snuffler whatever about his blue canaries I’d do nine months for his beaver beard.

2 Mater Mary Mercerycordial of the Dripping Nipples, milk’s a queer arrangement.

3 Real life behind the floodlights as shown by the best exponents of a royal divorce.

gipsylike chinkaminx pulshandjupeyjade and her petsybluse indecked o’ voylets.1 When who was wist was ware. En elv, et fjaell. And the whirr of the whins humming us howe. His hume. Hencetaking tides we haply return, trumpeted by prawns and ensigned with sea-kale, to befinding ourself when old is said in one and maker mates with made (O my!), having conned the cones and meditated the mured and pondered the pensils and ogled the olymp and delighted in her dianaphous and cacchinated behind his culosses, before a
Swiney Tod, ye Daimon Barbar!
mosoleum. Length Withought Breath, of him, a chump of the evums, upshoot of picnic or stupor out of sopor, Cave of Kids or Hyma-nian Glattstoneburg, denary, danery, donnery,
Dig him in the rubsh!
Ungodly old Ard-rey, Cronwall beeswaxing the convulsion box.
domm, who, entiringly as he continues highly-fictional, tumulous under his chthonic exterior but plain Mr Tumulty in muftilife,2 in his an-tisipiences as in his recognisances, is, (Dominic Directus) a manyfeast munificent more mob than man.
CONSTITU-TION OF THE CONSTITU-TIONABLE AS CONSTITU-TIONAL.
Ainsoph,3 this upright one, with that noughty besighed him zeroine. To see in his horrorscup he is mehrkurios than saltz of sulphur. Terror of the noonstruck by day, cryptogam of each nightly bridable. But, to speak broken heaventalk, is he? Who is he? Whose is he? Why is he? Howmuch is he? Which is he? When is he? Where is he?4 How is he? And what the decans is there about him
1 When we play dress grownup at alla ludo poker you’ll be happnessised to feel how fetching I can look in clingarounds.

2 Kellywick, Longfellow’s Lodgings, House of Comments III, Cake Walk, Amusing Avenue, Salt Hill, Co. Mahogany, Izalond, Terra Firma.

3 Groupname for grapejuice.

4 Bhing, said her burglar’s head, soto poce.

anyway, the decemt man? Easy, calm your haste! Approach to lead our passage!
PROBA-POSSIBLE PROLEGO-MENA TO IDEAREAL HISTORY.
This bridge is upper.
Cross.
Thus come to castle.
Knock. 1
A password, thanks.
Yes, pearse.
Well, all be dumbed!
O really? 2
Swing the banjo, bantams, bounce-the-baller’s blown to fook.

Thsight near left me eyes when I seen her put thounce otay ithpot.
Hoo cavedin earthwight
At furscht kracht of thunder. 3
When shoo, his flutterby,
Was netted and named.4
Erdnacrusha, requiestress, wake em!
And let luck’s puresplutterall lucy at ease! 5
To house as wise fool ages builded.
Sow byg eat. 6
Quartandwds.

Tickets for the Tailwaggers Terrierpuppy Raffle.GNOSIS OF PRECREATE DETERMINA-TION. AGNOSIS OF POSTCREATE DETER-MINISM.
Staplering to tether to, steppingstone to mount by, as the Boote’s at Pickardstown. And that skimmelk steed still in the ground-loftfan. As over all. Or be these wingsets leaned to the outwalls, beastskin trophies of booth of Baws the balsamboards? 7 Burials be bally-houraised! So let Bacchus e’en call! Inn inn! Inn inn! Where. The babbers ply the pen. The bibbers drang the den. The papplicom, the pubblicam he’s turning tin for ten. From

1 Yussive smirte and ye mermon answerth from his beelyingplace below the tightmark, Gotahelv!

2 O Evol, kool in the salg and ees how Dozi pits what a drows er.

3 A goodrid croven in a tynwalled tub.

4 Apis amat aram. Luna legit librum. Pulla petit pascua.

5 And after dinn to shoot the shades.

6 Says blistered Mary Achinhead to beautifed Tummy Tullbutt.

7 Begge. To go the Begge. To go to Begge and to be sure to reminder Begge. Goodbeg, buggey Begge.

Mars speaking.

Smith, no home.

Non quod sed quiat.

Hearasay in paradox lust.
seldomers that most frequent him. That same erst crafty hakemouth which under the assumed name of Ignotus Loquor, of foggy old, harangued bellyhooting fishdrunks on their favorite stamping ground, from a father theo-balder brake.1 And Egyptus, the incenstrobed, as Cyrus heard of him? And Major A. Shaw after he got the miner smellpex? And old Whiteman self, the blighty blotchy, beyond the bays, hope of ostrogothic and ottomanic faith converters, despair of Pandemia’s post-wartem plastic surgeons? But is was all so long ago. Hispano–Cathayan-Euxine, Castil-lian — Emeratic — Hebridian, Espanol — Cymric — Helleniky? Rolf the Ganger, Rough the Gang — ster, not a feature alike and the face the same.2 Pastimes are past times. Now let bygones be bei Gunne’s. Saaleddies er it in this warken werden, mine boerne, and it vild need older-wise 3 since primal made alter in garden of Idem. The tasks above are as the flasks below, saith the emerald canticle of Hermes and all’s loth and pleasestir, are we told, on excellent inkbottle authority, solarsystemised, seriol-cosmically, in a more and more almightily expanding universe under one, there is rhyme-less reason to believe, original sun. Securely judges orb terrestrial. 4 Haud certo ergo. But O felicitous culpability, sweet bad cess to you for an archetypt!

1 Huntler and Pumar’s animal alphabites, the first in the world from aab to zoo.

2 We dont hear the booming cursowarries, we won't fear the fletches of fightning, we float the meditarenias and come bask to the isle we love in spice. Punt.

3 And this once golden bee a cimadoro.

4 And he was a gay Lutharius anyway, Sinobiled. You can tell by their extraordinary clothes.

Bags.
Balls.ARCHAIC ZELOTYPIA AND THE ODIUM TEL-EOLOGICUM.
Honour commercio’s energy yet aid the linkless proud, the plurable with everybody and ech with pal, this ernst of Allsap’s ale halliday of roaring month with its two lunar eclipses and its three saturnine settings! Horn of Heatthen, highbrowed! Brook of Life, back-frish! Amnios amnium, fluminiculum flami — nulinorum! We seek the Blessed One, the Harbourer-cum-Enheritance. Even Canaan the Hateful. Ever a-going, ever a-coming. Between a stare and a sough. Fossilisation, all branches. 1 Wherefore Petra sware unto Ulma: By the mortals’ frost! And Ulma sware unto Petra: On my veiny life!

Move up, Mackinerny! Make room for Muckinurney!THE LOCALI-SATION OF LEGEND LEADING TO THE LEGALI-SATION OF LATIFUND-ISM.
In these places sojournemus, where Eblinn water, leased of carr and fen, leaving amont her shoals and salmen browses, whom inshore breezes woo with freshets, windeth to her broads. A phantom city, phaked of philim pholk, bowed and sould for a four of hundreds of manhood in their three and threescore fylkers for a price partitional of twenty six and six. By this riverside, on our sunnybank, 2 how buona the vista, by Santa Rosa! A field of May, the very vale of Spring. Orchards here are lodged; sainted lawrels evremberried. You have a hoig view ashwald, a glen of marrons and of thorns. Gleannaulinn, Ardeevin: purty glint of plaising height. This Norman court at boundary of the ville, yon creepered tower of a church of Ereland, meet for true saints in worshipful assemblage, 3 with our king’s house

1 Startnaked and bonedstiff. We vivvy soddy. All be dood.

2 When you dreamt that you’d wealth in marble arch do you ever think of pool beg slowe.

3 Porphyrious Olbion, redcoatliar, we were always wholly rose marines on our side every time.

In snowdrop, trou-de-dentelle, flesh and helio-trope.

Here’s our dozen cousins from the starves on tripes.
of stone, belgroved of mulbrey, the still that was mill and Kloster that was Yeomansland, the ghastcold tombshape of the quick fore-gone on, the loftleaved elm Lefanunian above — mansioned, each, every, all is for the retro — spectioner. Skole! Agus skole igen! 1 Sweet — some auburn, cometh up as a selfreizing flower, that fragolance of the fraisey beds: the phoenix, his pyre, is still flaming away with trueprat-tight spirit: the wren his nest is niedelig as the turrises of the sabines are televisible. Here are the cottage and the bungalow for the cobbeler and the brandnewburgher: 2 but Izolde, her chaplet gardens, an litlee plads af liefest pose, arride the winnerful wonders off, the winner-ful wonnerful wanders off, 3 with hedges of ivy and hollywood and bower of mistletoe, are, tho if it theem tho and yeth if you pleathes, 4 for the blithehaired daughter of Angoisse. All out of two barreny old perishers, Tytonyhands and Vlossyhair, a kilolitre in metromyriams. Presepeprosapia, the parent bole. Wone tabard, wine tap and warm tavern 5 and, by ribbon development, from contact bridge to lease lapse, only two millium two humbered and eighty thausig nine humbered and sixty radiolumin lines to the wustworts of a Finntown’s generous poet’s office. Distorted mirage, aloofliest of the plain, wherein the

1 Now a muss wash the little face.

2 A viking vernacular expression still used in the Summerhill district for a jerryhatted man of forty who puts two fingers into his boiling soupplate and licks them in turn to find out if there is enough mushroom catsup in the mutton broth.

3 H’dk’fs’h’p’y.

4 Googlaa pluplu.

5 Tomley. The grown man. A butcher szewched him the bloughs and braches. I’m chory to see P. Shuter.

boxomeness of the bedelias 1 makes hobby-hodge happy in his hole. 2 The store and charter, Treetown Castle under Lynne.-Riva-pool? Hod a brieck on it! But its piers eerie, its span spooky, its toll but a till, its parapets all peripateting. D’Oblong’s by his by. Which we all pass. Tons. In our snoo. Znore. While we hickerwards the thicker. Schein. Schore. Which assoars us from the murk of the mythe-lated in the barrabelowther, bedevere butlered table round, past Morningtop’s necessity and Harington’s invention, to the clarience of the childlight in the studiorium upsturts. Here we’ll dwell on homiest powers, love at the latch with novices nig and nag. The chorus: the principals. For the rifocillation of their inclination to the manifestation of irritation: doldorboys and doll. 3 After sound, light and heat, memory, will and understanding.

Bet you fippence, anythesious, there’s no pug-gatory, are yous game?PREAUSTERIC MAN AND HIS PURSUIT OF PAN-HYSTERIC WOMAN.
Here (the memories framed from walls are minding) till wranglers for wringwrowdy wready are, F þ, (at gaze, respecting, four-teenth baronet, meet, altrettanth bancorot, chaff) and ere commence commencement cata-launic when Aetius check chokewill Attil’s gambit, (that buxon bruzeup, give it a burl!) lead us seek, O june of eves the jenniest, thou who fleeest flicklesome the fond fervid frondeur to thickly thyself attach with thine efteased ensuer, 4 ondrawer of our uncon-scionable, flickerflapper fore our unter —

1 I believe in Dublin and the Sultan of Turkey.

2 I have heard this word used by Martin Halpin, an old gardener from the Glens of Antrim who used to do odd jobs for my godfather, the Rev. B.B. Brophy of Swords.

3 Ravens may rive so can dove deelish.

4 A question of pull.

There was a sweet hopeful called Cis.
drugged,1 lead us seek, lote us see, light us find, let us missnot Maidadate, Mimosa Multimim-etica, the maymeaminning of maimoomeining! Elpis, thou fountain of the greeces, all shall speer theeward,2 from kongen in his canteenhus to knivers hind the knoll. Ausonius Audacior and gael, gillie, gall.3 Singalingalying. Storiella as she is syung. Whence followeup with end-speaking nots for yestures, plutonically pur — suant on briefest glimpse from gladrags, pretty Proserpronette whose slit satchel spilleth peas.

The Big Bear bit the Sailor’s Only. Trouble, trouble, trouble.

Forening Unge Kristlike Kvinne.URGES AND WIDERURGES IN A PRIMI-TIVE SEPT.
Belisha beacon, beckon bright! Usherette, unmesh us! That grene ray of earong it waves us to yonder as the red, blue and yellow flogs time on the domisole,4 with a blewy blow and a windigo. Where flash becomes word and silents selfloud. To brace congeners, trebly bounden and asservaged twainly. Adamman,5 Emhe, Issossianusheen and sometypes Yggely ogs Weib. Uwayoei! 6 So mag this sybilette be our shibboleth that we may syllable her well! Vetus may be occluded behind the mou in Veto but Nova will be nearing as their radient among the Nereids. A one of charmers, ay, Una Unica, charmers, who, under the branches of the elms, in shoes as yet unshent by stoni-ness, wend, went, will wend a way of honey myrrh and rambler roses mistmusk while still the maybe mantles the meiblume or ever her

1 For Rose Point see Inishmacsaint.

2 Mannequins’ Pose.

3 Their holy presumption and hers sinfly desprit.

4 Anama anamaba anamabapa.

5 Only for he’s fathering law I could skewer that old one and slosh her out many’s the time but I thinks more of my pottles and ketts.

6 All abunk for Tarararat! Look slipper, soppyhat, we’ve a doss in the manger.

Telltale me all of annaryllies.
if have faded from the fleur,1 their arms enlocked, (ringrang, the chimes of sex appealing as conchitas with sentas stray,2 rung!), all thinking all of it, the It with an itch in it, the All every inch of it, the pleasure each will preen her for, the business each was bred to breed by.3

Will you carry my can and fight the fairies?

Allma Mathers, Auctioneer.

Old Gavelkind the Gamper and he’s as daff as you’re erse.EARLY NOTIONS OF ACQUIRED RIGHTS AND THE INFLU-ENCE OF COLLECTIVE TRADITION UPON THE INDIVIDUAL.

Soon jemmijohns will cudgel about some a rhythmatick or other over Browne and Nolan’s divisional tables whereas she, of minions’ novence charily being cupid, for mug’s wumping, grooser’s grubbiness, andt’s avarice and grossopper’s grandegaffe, with her tootpettypout of jemenfichue will sit and knit on solfa sofa.4 Stew of the evening, booksyful stew. And a bodikin a boss in the Thimble Theatre. But all is her-inbourne. Intend. From gramma’s grammar she has it that if there is a third person, mascarine, phelinine or nuder, being spoken abad it moods prosodes from a person speaking to her second which is the direct object that has been spoken to, with and at. Take the dative with his oblative5for, even if obsolete, it is always of interest, so spake gramma on the impetus of her imperative, only mind your genderous towards his reflexives such that I was to your grappa (Bott’s trousend, hore a man uff!) when him was me hedon6 and mine, what the lewdy saying, his analec-tual pygmyhop.7 There is comfortism in the

1 One must sell it to some one, the sacred name of love.

2 Making it up as we goes along.

3 The law of the jungerl.

4 Let me blush to think of all those halfwayhoist pullovers.

5 I’d like his pink’s cheek.

6 Frech devil in red hairing! So that’s why you ran away to sea, Mrs Lappy. Leap me, Locklaun, for you have sensed!

7 A washable lovable floatable doll.

Undante umoroso. M. 50–50.
oþk þþàáoþ ãþþiþþþ
knowledge that often hate on first hearing comes of love by second sight. Have your little sintalks in the dunk of subjunctions, dual in duel and prude with pruriel, but even the aoriest chaparound whatever plaudered perfect anent prettydotes and haec genua omnia may perhaps chance to be about to be in the case to be becoming a pale peterwright in spite of all your tense accusatives whilstly you’re wall-floored1 like your gerandiums for the better half of a yearn or sob. It’s a wild’s kitten, my dear, who can tell a wilkling from a warthog. For you may be as practical as is predicable but you must have the proper sort of accident to meet that kind of a being with a difference.2 Flame at his fumbles but freeze on his fist.3 Every letter is a godsend, ardent Ares, brusque Boreas and glib Ganymede like zealous Zeus, the O’Meghisthest of all. To me or not to me. Satis thy quest on. Werbungsap! Jeg suis, vos wore a gentleman, thou arr, I am a quean. Is a game over? The game goes on. Cookcook! Search me. The beggar the maid the bigger the mauler. And the greater the patrarc the griefer the pinch. And that’s what your doctor knows. O love it is the commonknounest thing how it pashes the plutous and the paupe.4 Pop! And egg she active or spoon she passive, all them fine clauses in Lindley’s and Murrey’s never braught the participle of a present to a desponent hortatrixy, vindicatively I say it,

1 With her poodle feinting to be let off and feeling dead in herself. Is love worse living?

2 If she can’t follow suit Ren‚e goes to the pack.

3 Improper frictions is maledictions and mens uration makes me mad.

4 Llong and Shortts Primer of Black and White Wenchcraft.

I’ll go for that small polly if you’ll suck to your lebbens-quatsch.

O’Mara Farrell.

Verschwindibus.
from her postconditional future.1 Lumpsome is who lumpsum pays. Quantity counts though accents falter. Yoking apart and oblique ora-tions parsed to one side, a brat, alanna, can choose from so many, be he a sollicitor’s appendix, a pipe clerk or free functionist flyswatter, that perfect little cad, from the languors and weakness of limberlimbed lassi-hood till the head, back and heartaches of waxedup womanage and heaps on heaps of other things too. Note the Respectable Irish Distressed Ladies and the Merry Mustard Frothblowers of Humphreystown Associa-tions. Atac first, queckqueck quicks after. Beware how in that hist subtaile of schlangder2 lies liaison to tease oreilles! To vert embowed set proper penchant. But learn from that ancient tongue to be middle old modern to the minute. A spitter that can be depended on. Though Wonderlawn’s lost us for ever. Alis, alas, she broke the glass! Liddell lokker through the leafery, ours is mistery of pain.3 You may spin on youthlit’s bike and multiplease your Mike and Nike with your kickshoes on the algebrars but, volve the virgil page and view, the O of woman is long when burly those two muters sequent her so from Nebob4 see you never stray who’ll nimm you nice and nehm the day.

Ulstria,CONCOMI-TANCE OF COURAGE,
One hath just been areading, hath not one, ya, ya, in their memoiries of Hireling’s puny wars, end so, und all, ga, ga, of The O’Brien,

1 The gaggles all out.

2 He’s just bug nuts on white mate he hasn’t the teath nor the grits to choo and that’s what’s wrong with Lang Wang Wurm, old worbbling goesbelly.

3 Dear and I trust in all frivolity I may be pardoned for trespassing but I think I may add hell.

4 He is my all menkind of every desception.

Monastir, Leninstar and Connecticut.

Cliopatria, thy hosies history.

The Eroico Furioso makes the valet like smiling.

The hyperape the mink he groves the mole you see nowfor crushsake, chawley!COUNSEL AND CON- STANCY. ORDINATION OF OMEN, ONUS AND OBIT. DIS- TRIBUTION OF DANGER, DUTY AND DESTINY. POLAR PRIN- CIPLES.

The O’Connor, The Mac Loughlin and The Mac Namara with summed their appondage, da, da, of Sire Jeallyous Seizer, that gamely torskmester,1 with his duo of druidesses in ready money rompers2 and the tryonforit of Oxthie-vious, Lapidous and Malthouse Anthemy. You may fail to see the lie of that layout, Suetonia,3 but the reflections which recur to me are that so long as beauty life is body love4 and so bright as Mutua of your mirror holds her candle to your caudle, lone lefthand likeless, sombring Autum of your Spring, reck you not one spirt of anyseed whether trigemelimen cuddle his coddle or nope. She’ll confess it by her figure and she’ll deny it to your face. If you’re not ruined by that one she won’t do you any whim. And then? What afters it? Cruff Gunne may blow, Gam Gonna flow, the gossans eye the jennings aye. From the butts of Heber and Heremon, nolens volens, brood our pansies, brune in brume. There’s a split in the infinitive from to have to have been to will be. As they warred in their big innings ease now we never shall know. Eat early earthapples. Coax Cobra to chatters. Hail, Heva, we hear! This is the glider that gladdened the girl5 that list to the wind that lifted the leaves that folded the fruit that hung on the tree that grew in the garden Gough gave. Wide hiss, we’re wizen-

1 All his teeths back to the front, then the moon and then the moon with a hole behind it.

2 Skip one, flop fore, jennies in the cabbage store.

3 None of your cumpohlstery English here!

4 Understudy my understandings, Sostituda, and meek thine compline-ment, gymnufleshed.

5 Tho’ I have one just like that to home, deadleaf brown with quicksilver appliques, would whollymost applissiate a nice shiny sleekysilk out of that slippering snake charmeuse.

Pige pas.
ing. Hoots fromm, we’re globing. Why hidest thou hinder thy husband his name? Leda, Lada, aflutter-afraida, so does your girdle grow! Willed without witting, whorled without aimed. Pappapassos, Mammamanet, warwhets-wut and whowitswhy.1 But it’s tails for toughs and titties for totties and come buckets come-bats till deeleet. 2

Seidlitz powther for slogan plumpers.

Hoploits and atthems.PANOPTICAL PURVIEW OF POLITICAL PROGRESS AND THE FUTURE PRE- SENTATION OF THE PAST.
Dark ages clasp the daisy roots, Stop, if you are a sally of the allies, hot off Minnowaurs and naval actiums, picked engagements and banks of rowers. Please stop if you’re a B.C. minding missy, please do. But should you prefer A.D. stepplease. And if you miss with a venture it serves you girly well glad. But, holy Janus, I was forgetting the Blitzen-kopfs! Here, Hengegst and Horsesauce, take your heads3 out of that taletub! And leave your hinnyhennyhindyou! It’s haunted. The chamber. Of errings. Whoan, tug, trace, stirrup! It is distinctly understouttered that, sense you threehandshighs put your twofoot-large timepates in that dead wash of Lough Murph and until such time pace one and the same Messherrn the grinning statesmen, Brock and Leon, have shunted the grumbling coundedtouts, Starlin and Ser Artur Ghinis. Foamous homely brew, bebattled by bottle, gageure de guegerre.4 Bull igien bear and then bearagain bulligan. Gringrin gringrin. Staffs varsus herds and bucks vursus barks.

1 What’s that ma’am? says I.

2 As you say yourself.

3 That’s the lethemuse but it washes off.

4 Where he fought the shessock of his stimmstammer and we caught the pepettes of our lovelives.

Curragh machree, me bosthoon fiend. Femilies hug bank! All we suffered under them Cow-dung Forks and how we enjoyed over our pick of the basketfild. Old Kine’s Meat Meal. Flieflie for the jillies and a bombambum for the nappotondus.
By old Grumbledum’s walls. Bumps, bellows and bawls.1 Opprimor’s down, up up Opima! Rents and rates and tithes and taxes, wages, saves and spends. Heil, heptarched span of peace!2 Live, league of lex, nex and the mores! Fas est dass and foe err you. Impovernment of the booble by the bauble for the bubble. So wrap up your worries in your woe (wumpum-tum!) and shake down the shuffle for the throw. For there’s one mere ope3 for down-fall ned. As Hanah Levy, shrewd shroplifter, and nievre anore skidoos with her spoileds. 4 To add gay touches. For hugh and guy and goy and jew. To dimpled and pimpled and simpled and wimpled. A peak in a poke and a pig in a pew.6 She wins them by wons, a haul hectoendecate, for mangay mumbo jumbjubes tak mutts and jeffs muchas bracelonettes gracies barcelonas.6 O what a loovely free-speech ’twas (tep) 7 to gar howalively hinter — grunting! Tip. Like lilt of larks to burdened crocodile,8 or skittering laubhing at that wheeze of old windbag, Blusterboss, blow-harding about all he didn’t do. Hell o’ your troop! With is the winker for the muckwits of willesly and nith is the nod for the umproar napollyon and hitheris poorblond piebold hoerse. Huirse. With its tricuspidal hauberk-

1 Shake eternity and lick creation.

2 I’m blest if I can see.

3 Hoppity Huhneye, hoosh the hen. I like cluckers, you like nuts (wink).

4 Sweet, medium and dry like altar wine.

5 Who’ll buy me penny babies?

6 Well, Maggy, I got your castoff devils all right and fits lovely. And am vaguely graceful. Maggy thanks.

7 My six is no secret, sir, she said.

8 Yes, there, Tad, thanks, give, from, tathair, look at that now.

Murdoch. Pas d’action, peu de sauce. From the seven tents of Joseph till the calends of Mary Marian, olivehunkered and thorny too. As Shakefork might pitch it.
helm coverchaf emblem on. For the man that broke the ranks on Monte Sinjon. The all-riddle of it? That that is allruddy with us, ahead of schedule, which already is plan accom-plished from and syne: Daft Dathy of the Five Positions (the death ray stop him!) is still, as reproaches Paulus, on the Madderhorn and, entre chats and hobnobs,1 daring Dunderhead to shiver his timbers and Hannibal mac Hamil-tan the Hegerite2 (more livepower elbow him!) ministerbuilding up, as repreaches Timothy, in Saint Barmabrac’s.3 Number Thirty two West Eleventh streak looks on to that (may all in the tocoming of the sempereternal speel spry with it!) datetree doloriferous which more and over leafeth earlier than every growth and, elfshot, headawag, with frayed nerves wondering till they feeled sore like any woman that has been born at all events to the purdah and for the howmanyeth and how-movingth time at what the demons in that jackhouse that jerry built for Massa and Missus and hijo de puta, the sparksown fermament of the starryk fieldgosongingon where blows a nemone at each blink of windstill4 they were sliding along and sleeting aloof and scouting around and shooting about. All-whichwhile or whereaballoons for good vaunty years Dagobert is in Clane’s clean hometown prepping up his prepueratory and learning how to put a broad face bronzily out through a broken breached meataerial

1 Go up quick, stay so long, come down slow!

2 If I gnows me gneesgnobs the both of him is gnatives of Genuas.

3 A glass of peel and pip for Mr Potter of Texas, please.

4 All the world loves a big gleaming jelly.

from Bryan Awlining! Erin’s hircohaired culoteer. 1
Puzzly, puzzly, I smell a cat. Two makes a wing at the ma-croscope telluspeep. From the Buffalo Times of bysone days. Quick quake quokes the parrotbook of dates.FROM CENO-GENETIC DI— CHOTOMY THROUGH DIAGONISTIC CONCILI-ANCE TO DYNASTIC CONTINU-ITY.
And as, these things being so or ere those things having done, way back home in Pacata Auburnia,2 (untillably holy gammel Eire) one world burrowing on another, (if you’ve got me, neighbour, in any large lumps, geek?, ant got the strong of it) Standfest, our topiocal sagon hero, or any otther macotther, signs is on the bellyguds bastille back, bucket up with fullness, ant silvering to her jubilee,3 birch-leaves her jointure, our lavy in waving, visage full of flesh ant fat as a hen’s i’ forehead, Airyanna ant Blowyhart topsirturvy, that royal pair in their palace of quicken boughs hight The Goat ant Compasses (‘phone number 17:69, if you want to know4 ) his sea-arm strongsround her, her velivole eyne aship — wracked, have discusst their things of the past, crime and fable with shame, home and profit,5 why lui lied to lei and hun tried to kill ham, scribbledehobbles, in whose veins runs a mixture of, are heat bent and hard upon. Spell me the chimes. They are tales all tolled. 6 Today is well thine but where’s may tomorrow be. But, bless his cowly head and press his crankly hat, what a world’s woe is each’s

1 A pengeneepy for your warcheekeepy.

2 My globe goes gaddy at geography giggle pending which time I was looking for my shoe all through Arabia.

3 It must be some bugbear in the gender especially when old which they all soon get to look.

4 After me looking up the plan in Humphrey’s Justice of the Piece it said to see preseeding chaps.

5 O boyjones and hairyoddities! Only noane told missus of her massas behaving she would laugh that flat that after that she had sanked down on her fat arks they would shaik all to sheeks.

6 Traduced into jinglish janglage for the nusances of dolphins born.

other’s weariness waiting to beadroll his own properer mistakes, the backslapping glad-hander,1 free of his florid future and the other singing likeness, dirging a past of bloody altars, gale with a blost to him, dove without gall. And she, of the jilldaw’s nest2 who tears up lettereens she never apposed a pen upon.3 Yet sung of love and the monster man. What’s Hiccupper to hem or her to Hagaba? Ough, ough, brieve kindli! 4

Some is out for twoheaded dul-carnons but more pulfers turnips. Omnitudes in a knutshedell. For all us kids under his aegis. Saving the public his health. Superlative absolute of Porterstown.THE MONGREL UNDER THE DUNGMOUND. SIGNIFICANCE OF THE INFRALIMINAL INELLIGENCE. OFFRANDES.
Dogs’ vespers are anending. Vespertilia-bitur. Goteshoppard quits his gabhard cloke to sate with Becchus. Zumbock! Achevre! Yet wind will be ere fadervor5 and the hour of fruminy and bergoo bell if Nippon have pearls or opals Eldorado, the daindy dish, the lecking out! Gipoo, good oil! For (hushmagandy!) long ’tis till gets bright that all cocks waken and birds Diana6 with dawnsong hail. Aught darks flou a duskness. Bats that? There peepee-strilling. At Brannan’s on the moor. At Tam Fanagan’s weak yat his still’s going strang. And still here is noctules and can tell things acommon on by that fluffy feeling. Larges loomy wheelhouse to bodgbox7 lumber up with hoodie hearsemen carrawain we keep is peace who follow his law, Sunday

1 He gives me pulpititions with his Castlecowards never in the twowsers and ever in those twawsers and then babeteasing us out of our hoydenname.

2 My goldfashioned bother near drave me roven mad and I dyeing to keep my linefree face like readymaid maryangs for jollycomes smashing Holmes.

3 What I would like is a jade louistone to go with the moon’s increscent.

4 Parley vows the Askinwhose? I do, Ida. And how to call the cattle black. Moopetsi meepotsi

5 I was so snug off in my apholster’s creedle but at long leash I’ll stretch more capritious in his dapplepied bed.

6 Pipette. I can almost feed their sweetness at my lisplips.

7 A liss in hunterland.

Why so mucky pick bridges span our Flumi-nian road. P.C. Helmut’s in the cottonwood, listnin. The throne is an umbrella strande and a sceptre’s a stick. Jady jewel, our daktar deer. Gautamed budders deossiphysing our Theas. By lineal in pondus overthepoise.
King.1 His sevencoloured’s soot (Ochone! Ochonal!)2 and his imponence one heap lump-block (Mogoul!). And rivers burst out like weeming racesround joydrinks for the fewnral-ly,3 where every feaster’s a foster’s other, fian — nians all. 4 The wellingbreast, he willing giant, the mountain mourning his duggedy dew. To obedient of civicity in urbanious at felicity what’ll yet meek Mike5 our diputy mimber when he’s head on poll and Peter’s burgess and Miss Mishy Mushy is tiptupt by Toft Taft. Boblesse gobleege. For as Anna was at the beginning lives yet and will return after great deap sleap rerising and a white night high with a cows of Drommhiem as shower as there’s a wet en-clouded in Westwicklow or a little black rose a truant in a thorntree. We drames our dreams tell Bappy returns. And Sein annews. We will not say it shall not be, this passing of order and order’s coming, but in the herbest country and in the country around Blath as in that city self of legionds they look for its being ever yet. So shuttle the pipers done.6 Eric aboy! 7 And it’s time that all paid tribute to this massive mor-tiality, the pink of punk perfection as photo — graphy in mud. Some may seek to dodge the

1 I wonder if I put the old buzzerd one night to suckle in Millickmaam’s honey like they use to emballem some of the special popes with a book in his hand and his mouth open.

2 And a ripping rude rape in his lucreasious togery.

3 Will ye nought would wet your weapons, warriors bard?

4 Roe, Williams, Bewey, Greene, Gorham, McEndicoth and Vyler, the lays of ancient homes.

5 The stanidsglass effect, you could sugerly swear buttermilt would not melt down his dripping ducks.

6 Thickathigh and Thinathews with sant their dam.

7 Oh, could we do with this waddled of ours like that redbanked profanian with his bakset of yosters.

gobbet for its quantity of quality but who wants to cheat the choker’s got to learn to chew the cud. Allwhichhole scrubs on scroll circuminiuminluminatedhave encuoniams here and improperies there.1 With a pansy for the pussy in the corner. 2
Pitchcap and triangle, noose and tinctunc. Uncle Flabbius Muximus to Niecia Flappia Minnimiss. As this is. And as this this is. Dear Brotus, land me arrears. Rockaby, babel, flatten a wall. How he broke the good news to Gent.INCIPIT IN-TERMISSIO. MAJOR AND MINOR
Bewise of Fanciulla’s heart, the heart of Fanciulla! Even the recollection of willow fronds is a spellbinder that lets to hear.3 The rushes by the grey nuns’ pond: ah eh oh let me sigh too. Coalmansbell: behoves you handmake of the load. Jenny Wren: pick, peck. Johnny Post: pack, puck.4 All the world’s in want and is writing a letters.5 A letters from a person to a place about a thing. And all the world’s on wish to be carrying a letters. A let-ters to a king about a treasure from a cat. 6 When men want to write a letters. Ten men, ton men, pen men, pun men, won't to rise a ladder. And den men, dun men, fen men, fun men, hen men, hun men went to raze a leader. Is then any lettersday from many peoples, Daganasanavitch? Empire, your outermost. 7 A posy cord. Plece.

We have wounded our way on foe tris prince till that force in the gill is faint afarred

1 Gosem pher, gezumpher, greeze a jarry grim felon! Good bloke him!

2 And if they was setting on your stool as hard as my was she could beth her bothom dolours he’d have a culious impressiom on the diminitive that chafes our ends.

3 When I’am Enastella and am taken for Essastessa I’ll do that droop on the pohlmann’s piano.

4 Heavenly twinges, if it’s one of his I’ll fearly feint as swoon as he enter-rooms.

5 To be slipped on, to be slept by, to be conned to, to be kept up. And when you’re done push the chain.

6 With her modesties office.

7 Strutting as proud as a great turquin weggin that cuckhold on his Eddems and Clay’s hat.

MODES COA-LESCING PROLIFER-ATE HOMOGENUINE HOMOGEN-EITY.
and the face in the treebark feigns afear. This is rainstones ringing. Strangely cult for this ceasing of the yore. But Erigureen is ever. Pot price pon patrilinear plop, if the osseletion of the onkring gives omen nome? Since alls war that end war let sports be leisure and bring and buy fair. Ah ah athclete, blest your bally bathfeet! Towntoquest, fortorest, the hour that hies is hurley. A halt for hearsake. 1
1 Come, smooth of my slate, to the beat of my blosh! With all these gelded ewes jilting about and the thrills and ills of laylock blossoms three’s so much more plants than chants for cecilies that I was thinking fairly killing times of putting an end to myself and my malody, when I remembered all your pupil-teacher’s erringnesses in perfection class. You sh’undn’t write you can’t if you w’udn’t pass for undevelopmented. This is the propper way to say that, Sr. If it’s me chews to swallow all you saidn’t you can eat my words for it as sure as there’s a key in my kiss. Quick erit faciofacey. When we will conjugate to-gether toloseher tomaster tomiss while morrow fans amare hour, verbe de vie and verve to vie, with love ay loved have I on my back spine and does for ever. Your are me severe? Then rue. My intended, Jr, who I’m throne away on, (here he inst, my lifstack, a newfolly likon) when I slip through my pettigo I’ll get my decree and take seidens when I’m not ploughed first by some Rolando the Lasso, and flaunt on the flimsyfilmsies for to grig my collage juniorees who, though they flush fuchsia, are they octette and virginity in my shade but always my figurants. They may be yea of my year but they’re nary nay of my day. Wait till spring has sprung in spickness and prigs beg in to pry they’ll be plentyprime of housepets to pimp and pamper my. Impending marriage. Nature tells everybody about but I learned all the runes of the gamest game ever from my old nourse Asa. A most adventuring trot is her and she vicking well knowed them all heartswise and fourwords. How Olive d’Oyly and Winnie Carr, bejupers, they reized the dressing of a salandmon and how a peeper costs and a salt sailor med a mustied poet atwaimen. It most have bean Mad Mullans planted him. Bina de Bisse and Trestrine von Terrefin. Sago sound, rite go round, kill kackle, kook kettle and (remember all should I forget to) bolt the thor. Auden. Wasn’t it just divining that dog of a dag in Skokholme as I sat astrid uppum their Drewitt’s altar, as cooledas as cul-cumbre, slapping my straights till the sloping ruins, postillion, postallion, a swinge a swank, with you offering me clouts of illscents and them horners stagstruck on the leasward! Don’t be of red, you blanching mench! This isabella I’m on knows the ruelles of the rut and she don’t fear andy mandy. So sing loud, sweet cheeriot, like anegreon in heaven! The good fother with the twingling in his eye will always have cakes in his pocket to bethroat us with for our allmichael good. Amum. Amum. And Amum again. For tough troth is stronger than fortuitous fiction and it’s the surplice money, oh my young friend and ah me sweet creature, what buys the bed while wits borrows the clothes.

Bibelous hics-tory and Barbar — assa harestary. A shieling in cop-pingers and porrish soup all days. How matches metroosers? Le h‚los tombaut soul sur la jambe de marche.

A scene at sight. Or dreamoneire. Which they shall memorise. By her freewritten Hopely for ear that annalykeses if scares for eye that sumns. Is it in the now woodwordings of our sweet plantation where the branchings then will singingsing tomorrows gone and yesters outcome as Satadays aftermoon lex leap smiles on the twelvemonthsminding? Such is. Dear (name of desired subject, A.N.), well, and I go on to. Shlicksher. I and we (tender condolences for happy funeral, one if) so sorry to (mention person suppressed for the moment, F.M.). Well (enquiries after all-healths) how are you (question maggy). A lovely (introduce to domestic circles) pershan of cates. Shrubsher. Those pothooks mostly she hawks from Poppa Vere Foster but these curly mequeues are of Mippa’s moulding. Shrubsheruthr. (Wave gently in the ere turning ptover.) Well, mabby (consolation of shopes) to soon air. With best from cinder Christinette if prints chumming, can be when desires Soldi, for asamples, backfronted or, if all, peethrolio or Get my Prize, using her flower or perfume or, if veryveryvery chum-ming, in otherwards, who she supposed adeal, kissists my exits. Shlicksheruthr. From Auburn chenlemagne. Pious and pure fair one, all has concomitated to this that she shall tread them lifetrees leaves whose silence hitherto has shone as sphere of silver fastalbarnstone, that fount Bandusian shall play liquick music and after odours sigh of musk. Blotsbloshblothe, one dear that was. Sleep in the water, drug at the fire, shake the dust off and dream your one who would give her sidecurls to. Till later

Lammas is led in by baith our washwives, a weird of wonder tenebrous as that evil thorn-garth, a field of faery blithe as this flowing wild.
Mai maintenante elle est venuse. Two Dons Johns Threes Totty Askins. Also Spuke Zerothruster. A saxum shillum for the sextum but nothums for that parridge preast.THE PART PLAYED BY BELLETRI-PAX-BELLUM. MUTUOMOR-PHOMUTATION. SORTES VIR-GINIANAE. INTERROGATION. EXCLAMATION.
Aujourd’hui comme aux temps le Pline et de Columelle la jacinthe se plait dans les Gaules, la pervenche en Illyrie, la marguerite sur les ruines de Numance1 et pendant qu’autour d’elles les villes ont chang‚ de maŒtres et de noms, que plusieurs sont entr‚es dans le n‚ant, que les civilisations se sont choqu‚es et bris‚es, leurs paisibles g‚n‚rations ont travers‚ les ages et sont arriv‚es jusqu’… nous, fraŒches et riantes comme aux jours des batailles. 2

Margaritomancy! Hyacinthinous pervinci-veness! Flowers. A cloud. But Bruto and Cassio are ware only of trifid tongues3 the whispered wilfulness, (’tis demonal!) and sha-dows shadows multiplicating (il folsoletto nel falsoletto col fazzolotto dal fuzzolezzo),4 to-tients quotients, they tackle their quarrel. Sicka — moor’s so woful sally. Ancient’s aerger. And eachway bothwise glory signs. What if she love Sieger less though she leave Ruhm moan? That’s how our oxyggent has gotten ahold of half their world. Moving about in the free of the air and mixing with the ruck. Enten eller, either or.

And!
Nay, rather!

1 The nasal foss of our natal folkfarthers so so much now for Valsing-giddyrex and his grand arks day triump.

2 Translout that gaswind into turfish, Teague, that’s a good bog and you, Thady, poliss it off, there’s nateswipe, on to your blottom pulper.

3 You daredevil donnelly, I love your piercing lots of lies and your flashy foreign mail so here’s my cowrie card, I dalgo, with all my exes, wise and sad.

4 All this Mitchells is a niggar for spending and I will go to the length of seeing that one day Big Mig will be nickleless himself.

With sobs for his job, with tears for his toil, with horror for his squalor but with pep for his perdition,1 lo, the boor plieth as the laird hireth him.

Boon on begyndelse.

At maturing daily gloryaims! 2

Tricks stunts. Truckeys’ can't for dactyl and spondee. Panoplous pere-grine pifflicative pomposity.ANTITHESIS OF AMBI-DUAL ANTICIPATION. THE MIND FACTORY, ITS GIVE AND TAKE. AUSPICIUM. AUGURIA. DIVINITY NOT DEITY THE UNCER-TAINTY JUSTIFIED BY OUR CERTITUDE. EXAMPLES.
A flink dab for a freck dive and a stern poise for a swift pounce was frankily at the manual arith sure enough which was the bekase he knowed from his cradle, no bird better, why his fingures were giving him whatfor to fife with. First, by observation, there came boko and nigh him wigworms and nigh him tittlies and nigh him cheekadeekchimple and nigh him pickpocket with pickpocketpumb, pick-pocketpoint, pickpocketprod, pickpocket — promise and upwithem. Holy Joe in lay Eden.3 And anyhows always after them the dimpler he weighed the fonder fell he of his null four lovedroyd curdinals, his element cur-dinal numen and his enement curdinal marryng and his epulent curdinal weisswassh and his eminent curdinal Kay O’Kay. Always would he be reciting of them, hoojahs koojahs, up by rota, in his Fanden’s catachysm from fursed to laced, quickmarch to decemvers, so as to pin the tenners, thumbs down. And anon an aldays, strues yerthere, would he wile arecreating em om lumerous ways, caiuscounting in the scale of pin puff pive piff, piff puff pive poo, poo puff pive pree, pree puff pive pfoor, pfoor puff pive pippive, poopive,4 Niall Dhu,

1 While I’ll wind the wildwoods’ bluckbells among my window’s weeds.

2 Lawdy Dawdy Simpers.

3 But where, O where, is me lickle dig done?

4 That’s his whisper waltz I like from Pigott’s with that Lancydancy step. Stop.

Non plus ulstra, Elba, nec, cashel-bum tuum. Dondderwedder Kyboshicksal

Foughty Unn, Enoch Thortig, endso one, like to pitch of your cap, pac, on to tin tall spilli-cans.1 To sum, borus pew notus pew eurus pew zipher. Ace, deuce, tricks, quarts, quims. Mumtiplay of course and carry to their whole number. While on the other hand, traduced by their comedy nominator to the loaferst terms for their aloquent parts, sexes, suppers, oglers, novels and dice.2 He could find (the rakehelly!) by practice the valuse of thine-to-mine articles with no reminder for an equality of relations and, with the helpings from his tables, improduce fullmin to trumblers, links unto chains, weys in Nuffolk till tods of Yorek, oozies ad libs and several townsends, several hundreds, civil-to-civil imperious gallants into gells (Irish), bringing alliving stone allaughing down to grave clothnails and a league of archers, fools and lurchers under the rude rule of fumb. What signifieth whole that3 but, be all the prowess of ten, ’tis as strange to relate he, nonparile to rede, rite and reckan, caught allmeals dullmarks for his nucleuds and alegobrew. They wouldn’t took bearings no how anywheres. O them dodd-hunters and allanights, aabs and baas for agnomes, yees and zees for incognits, bate him up jerrybly! Worse nor herman doror-rhea. Give you the fantods, seemed to him. They ought to told you every last word first stead of trying every which way to kinder smear it out poison long. Show that the

1 Twelve buttles man, twentyeight bows of curls, forty bonnets woman and every youthfully yours makes alleven add the hundred.

2 Gamester Damester in the road to Rouen, he grows more like his deed every die.

3 Slash-the-Pill lifts the pellet. Run, Phoenix, run!

A stodge Angleshman has been worked by eccentricity. An oxygon is noturally reclined to rest. Ba be bi bo bum.

median, hce che ech, interecting at royde angles the parilegs of a given obtuse one bis-cuts both the arcs that are in curveachord behind. Brickbaths. The family umbroglia. A Tullagrove pole1 to the Height of County Fearmanagh has a septain inclinaison2 and the graphplot for all the functions in Lower County Monachan, whereat samething is rivi-sible by nighttim, may be involted into the zeroic couplet, palls pell inhis heventh glike noughty times ì , find, if you are not literally cooefficient, how minney combinaisies and per-mutandies can be played on the international surd! pthwndxrclzp!, hids cubid rute being extructed, taking anan illitterettes, ififif at a tom. Answers, (for teasers only).3 Ten, twent, thirt, see, ex and three icky totchty ones. From solation to solution. Imagine the twelve deaferended dumbbawls of the whowl above-beugled to be the contonuation through regeneration of the urutteration of the word in pregross. It follows that, if the two ante-sedents be bissyclitties and the three come — seekwenchers trundletrikes, then, Aysha Lali — pat behidden on the footplate, Big Whiggler 4 restant upsittuponable, the NCR5 presents to us (tandem year at lasted length!) an otto-mantic turquo-indaco of pictorial shine by pictorial shimmer so long as, gad of the gidday, pictorial summer, viridorefulvid, lits asheen,

1 Dideney, Dadeney, Dudeney, O, I’d know that putch on your poll.

2 That is tottinghim in his boots.

3 Come all ye hapney coachers and support the richview press.

4 Braham Baruch he married his cook to Massach McKraw her uncle-inlaw who wedded his widow to Hjalmar Kjaer who adapted his daughter to Braham the Bear. V for Wadlock, P for shift, H for Lona the Konkubine.

5 A gee is just a jay on the jaunts cowsway.

Finnfinnotus of Cincinnati. Arthurgink’s hussies and Everguin’s men. Nom de nombres! The balbearians.

but (lenz alack lends a lot), if this habby cyclic erdor be outraciously enviolated by a mierelin roundtableturning, like knuts in maze, the zitas runnind hare and dart1 with the yeggs in their muddle, like a seven of wingless arrows, hodgepadge, thump, kick and hurry, all boy more missis blong him he race quickfeller all same hogglepiggle longer house blong him, 2 while the catched and dodged exarx seems himmulteemiously to beem (he wins her hend! he falls to tail!) the ersed ladest mand3 and (uhu and uhud!) the losed farce on erro-roots,4 twalegged poneys and threehandled dorkeys (madahoy, morahoy, lugahoy, jog-ahoyaway) MPM brings us a rainborne pamto — momiom, aqualavant to (cat my dogs, if I baint dingbushed like everything!) kaksitoista volts yksitoista volts kymmenen volts yhdek-san volts kahdeksan volts seitseman volts kuusi volts viisi volts nelja volts kolme volts kaksi volts yksi! allahthallacamellated, caravan series to the finish of helve’s fractures.5 In outher wards, one from five, two to fives ones, one from fives two millamills with a mill and a half a mill and twos twos fives fives of bully clavers. For a surview over all the factionables see Iris in the Evenine’s World.6 Binomeans to be comprendered. Inexcessible as thy by god ways. The aximones. And their prosta-

1 Talking about trilbits.

2 Barneycorrall, a precedent for the prodection of curiosity from children

3 A pfurty pscore of ruderic rossies haremhorde for his divelsion.

4 Look at your mad father on his boneshaker fraywhaling round Myriom square.

5 Try Asia for the assphalt body with the concreke soul and the forequarters of the moon behinding out of his phase.

6 Tomatoes malmalaid with De Quinceys salade can be tastily served with Indiana Blues on the violens.

lutes. For his neuralgiabrown. Equal to=aosch.
P.t.l.o.a.t.o.

Vive Paco Hunter! The hoisted in red and the low-ered in black. The boss’s bess bass is the browd of Mullingar. The aliments of jumeantry.HEPTAGRAMMATON. HYPOTHESES OF COMMONEST EXPERIENCES BEFORE APOTHEOSIS OF THE LUSTRAL PRINCIPIUM. INGENIOUS LABOUR-TENACITY AS BETWEEN INGENUOUS AND LIBERTINE. PROPE AND PROCUL IN THE CONVERGENCE OF THEIR CONTRAPULSIVENESS.
So, bagdad, after those initials falls and that primary taincture, as I know and you know yourself, begath, and the arab in the ghetto knows better, by nettus, nor anymeade or persan, comic cuts and series exerxeses always were to be capered in Casey’s frost book of, page torn on dirty, to be hacked at Hickey’s, hucksler, Wellington’s Iron Bridge, and so, by long last, as it would shuffle out, must he to trump adieu atout atous to those cardinhands he a big deal missed, radmachrees and rosse-cullinans and blagpikes in suitclover. Dear hearts of my counting, would he revoke them, forewheel to packnumbers, and, the time being no help fort, plates to lick one and turn over.

Problem ye ferst, construct ann aquilittoral dryankle Probe loom! With his primal hand-stoe in his sole salivarium. Concoct an equo — angular trillitter.1 On the name of the tizzer and off the tongs and off the mythametical tripods. Beatsoon.

Can you nei do her, numb? asks Dolph, 2 suspecting the answer know. Oikkont, ken you, ninny? asks Kev,3 expecting the answer guess.4 Nor was the noer long disappointed for easiest of kisshams, he was made vicewise. Oc, tell it to oui, do, Sem! Well, ’tis oil thusly. First mull a mugfull of mud, son.5 Oglores,

1 As Rhombulus and Rhebus went building rhomes one day.

2 The trouveller.

3 Of the disorded visage.

4 Singlebarrelled names for doubleparalleled twixtytwins.

5 Like pudging a spoon fist of sugans into a sotspot of choucolout.

the virtuoser prays, olorum What the D.V. would I to that for? That’s a goosey’s gans-wer you’re for giving me, he is told, what the Deva would you do that for?1 Now, sknow royol road to Puddlin, take your mut for a first beginning, big to bog, back to bach. Anny liffle mud which cometh out of Mam will doob, I guess. A.I. Amnium instar. And to find a locus for an alp get a howlth on her bayrings as a prisme O and for a second O unbox your compasses. I cain but are you able? Amicably nod. Gu it! So let’s seth off betwain us. Prompty? Mux your pistany at a point of the coastmap to be called a but pro-nounced olfa. There’s the isle of Mun, ah! O! Tis just. Bene! Now, whole in applepine odrer 2
Wolsherwomens at their weirdst.

(for — husk, hisk, a spirit spires — Dolph, dean of idlers, meager suckling of gert stoan, though barekely a balbose boy, he too, — venite, preteriti,3 sine mora dumque de entibus nascituris decentius in lingua roman mortuorum parva chartula liviana ostenditur, seden-tes in letitiae super ollas carnium, spectantes immo situm lutetiae unde auspiciis secundis tantae consurgent humanae stirpes, antiquissimam flaminum amborium Jordani et Jambaptistae mentibus revolvamus sapientiam: totum tute fluvii modo mundo fluere, eadem quae ex aggere fututa iterum inter alveum fore futura, quodlibet sese ipsum per aliudpiam agnoscere contrarium, omnem demun amnem ripis rivalibus amplecti4 — recurrently often, when him moved he would cake their chair, coached rebelliumtending mikes of his same and over his own choirage at Backlane Univarsity, among of which pupal souaves the pizdrool was pulled up, bred and bat-

1 Will you walk into my wavetrap? said the spiter to the shy.

2 If we each could always do all we ever did.

3 Dope in Canorian words we’ve made. Spish from the Doc.

4 Basqueesh, Finnican, Hungulash and Old Teangtaggle, the only pure way to work a curse.

tered, for a dillon a dollar,1 chanching letters for them vice o’verse to bronze mottes and blending tschemes for em in tropadores and doublecressing twofold thruths and devising tingling tailwords too whilest, cunctant that another would finish his sentence for him, he druider would smilabit eggways2 ned, he, to don’t say nothing, would, so prim, and pick upon his ten ordinailed ungles, trying to undo with his teeth the knots made by his tongue, retelling humself by the math hour, long as he’s brood reel of funnish ficts apout the shee, how faust of all and on segund thoughts and the thirds the charmhim girlalove and fourther-more and filthily with bag from Oxatown and baroccidents and proper accidence and hoptohill and hexenshoes, in fine the whole damning letter; and, in point of feet, when he landed in ourland’s leinster3 of saved and solomnones for the twicedhecame time, off Lipton’s strongbowed launch, the Lady Eva, in a tan soute of sails4 he converted it’s nataves, name saints, young ordnands, maderaheads and old unguished P.T. Publikums, through the medium of znigznaks with sotiric zeal, to put off the barcelonas5 from their peccaminous corpulums (Gratings, Mr Dane!) and kiss on their bottes (Master!) as often as they came within blood-shot of that other familiar temple and showed em the celestine way to by his tristar and his flop hattrick and his perry humdrum dumb and numb nostrums that he larned in Hymbuktu,6 and that same galloroman cultous is very prevailend up to this windiest of landhavemiseries all over what was beforeaboots a land of nods, in spite of all the bloot, all the braim, all the brawn, all the brile, that was shod, that were shat, that was shuk all the while, for our massangrey if mosshungry people, the at Wickerworks,7 still hold

1 An ounceworth of onions for a pennyawealth of sobs.

2 Who brought us into the yellow world!

3 Because it’s run on the mountain and river system.

4 When all them allied sloopers was ventitillated in their poppos and, sliding down by creek and veek, stole snaking out to sea.

5 They were plumped and plumed and jerried and citizens and racers, and cinnamondhued.

6 Creeping Crawleys petery parley, banished to his native Ireland from erring under Ryan.

7 Had our retrospectable fearfurther gatch mutchtatches?

ford to their healing and1 byleave in the old weights downupon the Swanny, innovated by him, the prence di Propagandi, the chrism for the christmass, the pillar of the perished and the rock o’ralereality, and it is veritably belied, we belove, that not allsods of esoupcans that’s in the queen’s pottage post and not allfinesof greendgold that the Indus contains would overhinduce them, (o.p.) to steeplechange back once from their ophis workship and twice on sundises, to their ancient flash and crash habits of old Pales time ere beam slewed cable2 or Derzherr, live wire, fired Benjermine Funkling outa th’Empyre, sin righthand son; which, cummal, having listed curefully to the interlooking and the under-lacking of her twentynine shifts or his continental’s curses, pum — mel, apostrophised Byrne’s and Flamming’s and Furniss’s and Bill Hayses’s and Ellishly Haught’s, hoc, they (t.a.W.), sick or whole, stiff or sober, let drop as a doombody drops, with-out another ostrovgods word eitherways, in their own lineal descendance, as priesto as puddywhack,3 coal on: 4 and, as we gang along to gigglehouse, talking of molniacs’ manias and missions for mades to scotch the schlang and leathercoats for murty magdies, of course this has blameall in that medeoturanian world to say to blessed by Pointer the Grace’s his privates judge-ments5 whenso to put it, disparito, duspurudo, desterrado, des — pertieu, or, saving his presents for his own onefriend Bevradge, Conn the Shaughraun; but to return for a moment from the reptile’s age6 to the coxswain on the first landing (page Ainee Riviere!) if the pretty Lady Elisabbess, Hotel des Ruines — she laid her batsleeve for him two trueveres tell love (on the Ides of Valentino’s, at Idleness, Floods Area, Isolade, Liv’s lonely daughter, with the Comes Tichiami, of Prima Vista, Abroad, suddenly), and beauty alone of all dare say when now, uncrowned,

1 That is to sight, when cleared of factions, vulgure and decimating.

2 They just spirits a body away.

3 Patatapadatback.

4 Dump her (the missuse).

5 Fox him! The leggy colt!

6 Do he not know that walleds had wars. Harring man, is neow king. This is modeln times.

deceptered, in what niche of time1 is Shee or where in the rose world trysting, that was the belle of La Chapelle, shapely Liselle, and the peg-of-my-heart of all the tompull or on whose limbs-to-lave her semicupiose eyes now kindling themselves are brightning, 2 O Shee who then (4.32 M.P., old time, to be precise, according to all three doctors waterburies that was Mac Auliffe and poor Mac–Beth and poor MacGhimley to the tickleticks, of the synchron — isms, all lauschening, a time also confirmed seven sincuries later by the quatren medical johnny, poor old MacAdoo MacDollett, with notary,3 whose presence was required by law of Devine Fore-sygth and decretal of the Douge) who after the first compliments 4 med darkist day light, gave him then that vantage of a Blinken-sope’s cuddlebath at her proper mitts — if she then, the then that matters,— but, seigneur! she could never have forefelt, as she yet will fearfeel, when the lovenext breaks out, such a coolcold douche as him, the totterer, the four-flights-the-charmer, doub-ling back, in nowtime,5 bymby when saltwater he wush him these iselands, O alors! to mount miss (the wooeds of Fogloot!) under that chemise de fer and a vartryproof name, Multalusi (would it wash?) with a cheek white peaceful as, wen shall say, a single pro-fessed claire’s6 and his washawash tubatubtub and his diagonoser’s lampblick, to pure where they where hornest girls, to buy her in par jure, il you plait, nuncandtunc and for simper, and other duel mavourneens in plurible numbers from Arklow Vikloe to Louth super Luck, come messes, come mams, and touch your spottprice (for’twas he was the born suborner, man) on behalf of an oldest ablished firma of winebakers, Lagrima and Gemiti, later on, his craft ebbing, invoked by the unirish title, Grindings of Nash,7 the

1 Muckross Abbey with the creepers taken off.

2 Joke and Jilt will have their tilt.

3 Old Mamalujorum and Rawrogerum.

4 Why have these puerile blonds those large flexible ears?

5 Pomeroy Roche of Portobello, or the Wreck of the Ragamuffin.

6 No wonder Miss Dotsh took to veils and she descended from that obloquohy.

7 The bookley with the rusin’s hat is Patomkin but I’m blowed if I knowed who the slave is doing behind the curtain.

One and Only, Unic bar None, of Saint Yves by Landsend corn-wer, man — ship me silver!, it must have been, faw! a terrible mavrue mavone, to synamite up the old Adam-he-used-to, such a finalley, and that’s flat as Tut’s fut, for whowghowho? the poour girl, a lonely peggy, given the bird, so inseuladed as Crampton’s peartree, (she sall eurn bitter bed by thirt sweet of her face!), and short wonder so many of the tomthick and tarry members in all there subsequious ages of our timocracy tipped to console with her at her mirrorable gracewindow’d hut1 till the ives of Man, the O’Kneels and the O’Prayins and the O’Hyens of Lochlaunstown and the O’Hollerins of Staneybatter, hollyboys, all, burryripe who’ll buy?,2 in juwelietry and kickychoses and madornaments and that’s not the finis of it (would it were!) — but to think of him foundling a nelliza the second,3 also cliptbuss (the best was still there if the torso was gone) where he did and when he did, re-triever to the last4 — escapes my forgetness now was it dust — covered, nom de Lieu! on lapse or street ondown, through, for or from a foe, by with as on a friend, at the Rectory? Vicarage Road? Bishop’s Folly? Papesthorpe?, after picket fences, stonewalls, out and ins or oxers — for merry a valsehood whisprit he to manny a lilying earling;5 and to try to analyse that ambo’s pair of brace-leans akwart the rollyon trying to amarm all 6 of that miching micher’s bearded but insensible virility and its gaulish mous-taches, Dammad and Groany, into her limited (tuff, tuff, que tu es pitre!) lapse at the same slapse for towelling ends7 in their dolight-ful Sexsex home, Somehow-at-Sea (O little oily head, sloper’s brow and prickled ears!) as though he, a notoriety, a foist edition, were a wrigular writher neonovene babe!8 — well, diarmuee and

1 O hce! O hce!

2 Six and seven the League.

3 It’s all round me hat I’ll wear a drooping dido.

4 Have you ever thought of a hitching your stern and being ourdeaned, Mester Bootenfly, here’s me and Myrtle is twinkling to know.

5 To show they caught preferment.

6 See the freeman’s cuticatura by Fennella.

7 Just one big booty’s pot.

8 Charles de Simples had an infirmierity complexe before he died a natural death.

granyou and Vae Vinctis, that is what lamoor that of gentle breast rathe is intaken seems circling toward out yondest (it’s life that’s all chokered by that batch of grim rushers) heaven help his hindmost and, mark mo, if the so greatly displeaced diorems in the Saint Lubbock’s Day number of that most improving of roundshows, Spice and Westend Woman (utterly exhausted before publication, indiapepper edition shortly), are for our indices, it agins to pear like it, par my fay, and there is no use for your pastripreaching for to cheesse it either or praying fresh fleshblood claspers of young catholick throats on Huggin Green1 to take warning by the prispast, why?, by cows . man, in shirt, is how he is pi — la gonna Š mobile and þ they wonet do ut; and, an you could peep inside the cerebralised saucepan of this eer illwinded goodfornobody, you would see in his house of thoughtsam (was you, that is, decontaminated enough to look discarnate) what a jetsam litterage of convolvuli of times lost or strayed, of lands derelict and of tongues laggin too, longa yamsayore, not only that but, search lighting, beached, bashed and beaushelled a la Mer pharahead into faturity, your own convolvulis pickninnig capman would real to jazztfancy the novo takin place of what stale words whilom were woven with and fitted fairly featly for, so; and equally so, the crame of the whole faustian fustian, whether your launer’s lightsome or your soulard’s schwearmood, it is that, whenas the swiftshut scareyss of our pupilteachertaut duplex will hark back to lark to you symibellically that, though a day be as dense as a decade, no mouth has the might to set a mearbound to the march of a landsmaul,2 in half a sylb, helf a solb, holf a salb on-ward 3 the beast of boredom, common sense, lurking gyrographi — cally down inside his loose Eating S.S. collar is gogoing of whisth to you sternly how — Plutonic loveliaks twinnt Platonic yearlings — you must, how, in undivided reawlity draw the line somewhawre)

1 Where Buickly of the Glass and Bellows pumped the Rudge engineral.

2 Matter of Brettaine and brut fierce.

3 Bussmullah, cried Lord Wolsley, how me Aunty Mag’ll row!

WHY MY AS LIKEWISE WHIS HIS.

Coss? Cossist? Your parn! You, you make what name? (and in truth, as a poor soul is between shift and shift ere the teath he has lived through becomes the life he is to die into, he or he had albut — he was rickets as to reasons but the balance of his minds was stables — lost himself or himself some som-nione sciupiones, soswhitchoverswetch had he or he gazet, murphy come, murphy go, murphy plant, murphy grow, a maryamyria-meliamurphies, in the lazily eye of his lapis,
Uteralterance or the Interplay of Bones in the Womb.

The Vortex. Spring of Sprung Verse. The Ver-tex.
Vieus Von DVbLIn, ’twas one of dozedeams a darkies ding in dewood) the Turnpike under the Great Ulm (with Mearingstone in Fore ground).1 Given now ann linch you take enn all. Allow me! And, heaving alljawbreakical expressions out of old Sare Isaac’s2 universal of specious aristmystic unsaid, A is for Anna like L is for liv. Aha hahah, Ante Ann you’re apt to ape aunty annalive! Dawn gives rise. Lo, lo, lives love! Eve takes fall. La, la, laugh leaves alass! Aiaiaiai, Antiann, we’re last to the lost, Loulou! Tis perfect. Now (lens

1 Draumcondra’s Dream country where the betterlies blow.

2 O, Laughing Sally, are we going to be toadhauntered by that old Pantifox Sir Somebody Something, Burtt, for the rest of our secret stripture?

Sarga, or the path of outgoing. Docetism and Didicism, Maya-Thaya. Tamas-Rajas–Sattvas.
your dappled yeye here, mine’s presbyoperian, shill and wall) we see the copyngink strayed-line AL (in Fig., the forest) from being con tinued, stops ait Lambday:1 Modder ilond there too. Allow me anchore! I bring down noth and carry awe. Now, then, take this in! One of the most murmurable loose carollaries ever Ellis threw his cookingclass. With Olaf as centrum and Olaf’s lambtail for his spokes-man circumscript a cyclone. Allow ter! Hoop! As round as the calf of an egg! O, dear me! O, dear me now! Another grand dis-cobely! After Makefearsome’s Ocean. You’ve actuary entducked one! Quok! Why, you haven’t a passer! Fantastic! Early’ clever, surely doomed, to Swift’s, alas, the galehus! Match of a matchness, like your Bigdud dadder in the boudeville song, Gorotsky Gollovar’s Troubles, raucking his flavourite turvku in the smukking precincts of lydias,2 with Mary Owens and Dolly Monks seesidling to edge his cropulence and Blake–Roche, Kingston and Dockrell auriscenting him from afurz, our papacocopotl,3 Abraham Bradley King? (ting ting! ting ting!) By his magmasine fall. Lumps, lavas and all.4 Bene! But, thunder and turf, it’s not alover yet! One recalls Byzantium. The mystery repeats itself todate as our callback mother Gaudyanna, that was daughter to a tanner,5 used to sing, as I think, now and then consinuously over her possetpot in her quer

1 Ex jup pep off Carpenger Strate. The kids’ and dolls’ home. Makeacake-ache.

2 A vagrant need is a flagrant weed.

3 Grand for blowing off steam when you walk up in the morning.

4 At the foot of Bagnabun Banbasday was lost on one

5 We’re all found of our anmal matter.

The Vegetable Cell and its Pri-vate Properties. The haves and the havenots: a distinction.

homolocous humminbass hesterdie and ist-herdie forivor.1 Vanissas Vanistatums! And for a night of thoughtsendyures and a day. As Great Shapesphere puns it. In effect, I re-mumble, from the yules gone by, purr lil mur — rerof myhind, so she used indeed. When she give me the Sundaclouths she hung up for Tate and Comyng and snuffed out the ghost in the candle at his old game of haunt the sleepper. Faithful departed. When I’m dreaming back like that I begins to see we’re only all telescopes. Or the comeallyoum saunds. Like when I dromed I was in Dairy and was wuckened up with thump in thudderdown. Rest in peace! But to return.2 What a wonder-ful memory you have too! Twonderful morrowy! Straorbinaire! Bene! I bring town eau and curry nothung up my sleeve. Now, springing quickenly from the mudland-Loosh from Luccan with Allhim as her Elder tetra-turn a somersault. All’s fair on all fours, as my instructor unstrict me. Watch! And you’ll have the whole inkle. Allow, allow! Gyre O, gyre O, gyrotundo! Hop lala! As umpty herum as you seat! O, dear me, that was very nesse! Very nace indeed! And makes us a daintical pair of accomplasses! You, allus for the kunst and me for omething with a handel to it. Beve! Now, as will pressantly be felt, there’s tew tricklesome poinds where our twain of doubling bicirculars, mating approxe-metely in their suite poi and poi, dunloop into eath the ocher. Lucihere! I fee where you

1 Sewing up the beillybursts in their buckskin shiorts for big Kapitayn Killykook and the Jukes of Kelleiney.

2 Say where! A timbrelfill of twinkletinkle.

Zweispaltung as Fundemaintalish of Wiederher-stellung.
mea. The doubleviewed seeds. Nun, lemmas quatsch, vide pervoys akstiom, and I think as I’m suqeez in the limon, stickme punctum, but for semenal rations I’d likelong, by Araxes, to mack a capital Pee for Pride down there on the batom1 where Hoddum and Heave, our monsterbilker, balked his bawd of parodies. And let you go, Airmienious, and mick your modest mock Pie out of Humbles up your end. Where your apexojesus will be a point of order. With a geing groan grunt and a croak click cluck.2 And my faceage kink and kurkle trying to make keek peep.3 Are you right there, Michael, are you right? Do you think you can hold on by sitting tight? Well, of course, it’s awful angelous. Still I don’t feel it’s so dangelous. Ay, I’m right here, Nickel, and I’ll write. Singing the top line why it suits me mikey fine. But, yaghags hogwarts and arrahquinonthiance, it’s the muddest thick that was ever heard dump since Eggsmather got smothered in the plap of the pfan. Now, to compleat anglers, beloved bironthiarn and hushtokan hishtakatsch, join alfa pea and pull loose by dotties and, to be more sparematically logoical, eelpie and paleale by trunkles. Alow me align while I encloud especious! The Nike done it. Like pah,4 I peh. Innate little bondery. And as plane as a poke stiff.5 Now, aqua in buccat. I’ll make you to see figuratleavely the whome of your eternal

1 Parsee ffrench for the upholdsterer would be delightered.

2 I’ll pass out if the screw spliss his strut.

3 Thargam then goeligum? If you sink I can, swimford. Suksumkale!

4 Hasitatense?

5 The impudence of that in girl’s things!

Destiny, In-flunce of Design upon. Prometheus or the Promise of Provision
geomater. And if you flung her headdress on her from under her highlows you’d wheeze whyse Salmonson set his seel on a hexen-gown.1 Hissss!, Arrah, go on! Fin for fun! You’ve spat your shower like a son of Sibernia but let’s have at it! Subtend to me now! Pisk! Outer serpumstances beiug ekewilled, we care-fully, if she pleats, lift by her seam hem and jabote at the spidsiest of her trickkikant (like thousands done before since fillies calpered. Ocone! Ocone!) the maidsapron of our A.L.P., fearfully! till its nether nadir is vortically where (allow me aright to two cute winkles) its naval’s napex will have to beandbe. You must proach near mear for at is dark. Lob. And light your mech. Jeldy! And this is what you’ll say.2 Waaaaaa. Tch! Sluice! Pla! And their, redneck, (for addn’t we to gayatsee with Puhl the Pun-kah’s bell?)mygh and thy, the living spit of dead waters,3 fastness firm of Hurdlebury Fenn, discinct and isoplural in its (your sow to the duble) sixuous parts, flument, fluvey and fluteous, midden wedge of the stream’s your muddy old triagonal delta, fiho miho, plain for you now, appia lippia pluvaville, (hop the hula, girls!) the no niggard spot of her safety vulve, first of all usquiluteral threeingles, (and why wouldn’t she sit cressloggedlike the lass that lured a tailor?) the constant of fluxion, Mahamewetma, pride of the province4 and when that tidled boare rutches up from the Afrantic, allaph quaran’s his bett und bier! 5

1 The chape of Do¤a Speranza of the Nacion.

2 Ugol egal ogle. Mi vidim Mi.

3 It is, it is Sangannon’s dream.

4 And all meinkind.

5 Whangpoos the paddle and whiss whee whoo.

Ambages and Their R“le. Ecclasiastical and Celestial Hierarchies. The Ascending. The Descending. The peripatetic periphery. It’s Allothesis.
Paa lickam laa lickam, apl lpa! This it is an her. You see her it. Which it whom you see it is her. And if you could goaneggbetter we’d soon see some raffant scrumala riffa. Quicks herit fossyending. Quef! So post that to your pape and smarket! And you can haul up that languil pennant, mate. I’ve read your tunc’s dimissage. For, let it be taken that her littlenist is of no magnetude or again let it be granted that Doll the laziest can be dissimulant with all respects from Doll the fiercst, thence must any what-youlike in the power of empthood be either greater than or less than the unitate we have in one or hence shall the vectorious ready-eyes of evertwo circumflicksrent searclhers never film in the elipsities of their gyribouts those fickers which are returnally reprodictive of themselves.1 Which is unpassible. Quarrel-lary. The logos of somewome to that base any — thing, when most characteristically mantissa minus, comes to nullum in the endth:2 orso, here is nowet badder than the sin of Aha with his cosin Lil, verswaysed on coverswised, and all that’s consecants and cotangincies till Per-perp stops repippinghim since her redtangles are all abscissan for limitsing this tendency of our Frivulteeny Sexuagesima3 to expense her-selfs as sphere as possible, paradismic peri — mutter, in all directions on the bend of the unbridalled, the infinisissimalls of her facets becoming manier and manier as the calicolum of her umdescribables (one has thoughts of that eternal Rome) shrinks from schurtiness

1 I enjoy as good as anyone.

2 Neither a soul to be saved nor a body to be kicked.

3 The boast of the town.

Canine Venus sublimated to Aulidic Aphrodite. Exclusivism: the Ors, Sors and Fors, which?
to scherts.1 Scholium, there are trist sigheds to everysing but ichs on the freed brings euchs to the feared. Qued? Mother of us all! O, dear me, look at that now! I don’t know is it your spictre or my omination but I’m glad you dimentioned it! My Lourde! My Lourde! If that ain't just the beatenest lay I ever see! And a superpbosition! Quoint a quincidence! O.K. Omnius Kollidimus. As Ollover Krumwall sayed when he slepped ueber his grannya-mother. Kangaroose feathers: Who in the name of thunder’d ever belevin you were that bolt? But you’re holy mooxed and gaping up the wrong palce2 as if you was seeheeing the gheist that stays forenenst, you blessed simpletop domefool! Where’s your belested loiternan’s lamp? You must lap wandret down the bluishing refluction below. Her trunk’s not her brain — box. Hear where the bolgylines, Yseen here the puncture. So he done it. Luck! See her good. Well, well, well, well! O dee, O dee, that’s very lovely! We like Simperspreach Hammel-tones to fellow Selvertunes O’Haggans.3 When he rolls over his ars and shows the hise of his heels. Vely lovely entilely! Like a yangsheep-slang with the tsifengtse. So analytical plaus — ible! And be the powers of Moll Kelly, neigh — bour topsowyer, it will be a lozenge to me all my lauffe.4 More better twofeller we been speak copperads. Ever thought about Guinness’s? And the regrettable Parson Rome’s advice?

1 Hen’s bens, are we soddy we missiled her?

2 I call that a scumhead.

3 Pure chingchong idiotism with any way words all in one soluble. Gee each owe tea eye smells fish. That’s U.

4 The Doodles family, Hoodle doodle, fam.?

Want to join the police.1 You know, you were always one of the bright ones, since a foot made you an unmentionable, fakes! You know, you’re the divver’s own smart gossoon, aequal to yoursell and wanigel to anglyother, so you are, hoax! You know, you’ll be dampned, so you will, one of these invernal days but you will be, carrotty! 2

Primanouriture and Ultimo-geniture No Sturm. No Drang.SICK US A SOCK WITH SOME SEDI-MENT IN IT FOR THE SAKE OF OUR DARNING WIVES.
Wherapool, gayet that when he stop look time he stop long ground who here hurry he would have ever the lothst word, with a sweet me ah err eye ear marie to reat from the jacob’s3 and a shypull for toothsake of his armjaws at the slidepage of de Vere Foster, would and could candykissing P. Kevin to fress up the rinnerung and to ate by hart (leo I read, such a spanish, escribibis all your mycoscoups) won't to nibbleh ravenostonnoriously ihs mum to me in bewonderment of his chipper chuthor for, while that Other by the halp of his creac-tive mind offered to deleberate the mass from the booty of fight our Same with the holp of the bounty of food sought to delubberate the mess from his corructive mund, with his muffetee cuffes ownconsciously grafficking with his sinister cyclopes after trigamies and spirals’ wobbles pursuiting their rovinghamil-ton selves and godolphing in fairlove to see around the waste of noland’s browne jesus 4 (thur him no quartos!) till that on him poorin sweat the juggaleer’s veins (quench his quill!) in his napier scrag stud out bursthright tam-

1 Picking on Nickagain, Pikey Mikey?

2 Early morning, sir Dav Stephens, said the First Gentleman in youreups.

3 Bag bag blockcheap, have you any will?

4 What a lubberly whide elephant for the men-inthe-straits!

Illustration. Ascription of the Active. Proscription of the Passive.
quam taughtropes. (Spry him! call a blood lekar! Where’s Dr Brassenaarse?) Es war itwas in his priesterrite. O He Must Suffer! From this misbelieving feacemaker to his noncredible fancyflame.1 Ask for bosthoon, late for Mass, pray for blaablaablack sheep. (Sure you could wright anny pippap passage, Eye bet, as foyne as that moultylousy Erewhig, yerself, mick! Nock the muddy nickers!2 Christ’s Church varses Bellial!) Dear and he went on to scripple gentlemine born, milady bread, he would pen for her, he would pine for her,3 how he would patpun fun for all4 with his frolicky frowner so and his glumsome grinner otherso. And how are you, waggy?5 My animal his sorrafool! And trieste, ah trieste ate I my liver! Se non ‚ vero son trovatore. O jerry! He was soso, harriot all! He was sadfellow, steifel! He was mister-mysterion. Like a purate out of pensionee with a gouvernament job. All moanday, tearsday, wailsday, thumpsday, frightday, shatterday till the fear of the Law. Look at this twitches! He was quisquis, floored on his plankraft of shittim wood. Look at him! Sink deep or touch not the Cartesian spring! Want more ashes, griper? How diesmal he was lying low on his rawside laying siege to goblin castle. And, bezouts that, how hyenesmeal he was laying him long on his laughside lying sack to croakpartridge. (Be thou wars Rolaf’s intes-

1 And she had to seek a pond’s apeace to salve her suiterkins. Sued!

2 Excuse theyre christianbrothers irish?

3 When she tripped against the briery bush he profused her allover with curtsey flowers.

4 A nastilow disigraible game.

5 Dear old Erosmas. Very glad you are going to Penmark. Write to the corner. Grunny Grant.

Ensouling Fe — male Sustains Agonising Over-man. Sesama to the Rescues. The Key Signature.WHEN THE ANSWERER IS A LEMAN. ALL SQUARE AND
tions, quoths the Bhagavat biskop Leech) Ann opes tipoo soon ear! If you could me lendtill my pascol’s kondyl, sahib, and the price of a plate of poultice. Punked. With best apolojigs and merrymoney thanks to self for all the clerricals and again begs guerdon for bistris-pissing on your bunificence. Well wiggy — wiggywagtail, and how are you, yaggy? With a capital Tea for Thirst. From here Buvard to dear Picuchet. Blott.
Now, (peel your eyes, my gins, and brush your saton hat, me elementator joyclid, son of a Butt! She’s mine, Jow low jure,1 be Skibbering’s eagles, sweet tart of Whiteknees Arch — way) watch him, having caught at the bi — furking calamum in his bolsillos, the onelike underworp he had ever funnet without diffi-cultads, the aboleshqvick, signing away in happinext complete, (Exquisite Game of inspiration! I always adored your hand. So could I too and without the scrope of a pen. Ohr for oral, key for crib, olchedolche and a lunge ad lib. Can you write us a last line? From Smith–Jones-Orbison?) intrieatedly in years, jirry — alimpaloop. And i Romain, hup u bn gd grl. 2 Unds alws my thts. To fallthere at bare feet hurryaswormarose. Two dies of one raffle-ment. Eche bennyache. Outstamp and dis — tribute him at the expanse of his society. To be continued. Anon.

And ook, ook, ook, fanky! All the charic-tures3 in the drame! This is how San holy —

1 I loved to see the Macbeths Jerseys knacking spots of the Plumpduffs Pants.

2 Lifp year fends you all and moe, fouvenirs foft as fummer fnow, fweet willings and forget-uf-knots.

3 Gag his tubes yourself.

Force Centres of the Fire Serpen ine: heart, throat, navel, spleen, sacral, fontanella, inter-temporal eye. Conception of the Compromise and Finding of a Formula. Ideal Present Alone Produces Real Future.ACCORDING TO COCKER. TROTHBLOWERS. FIG AND THISTLE PLOT A PIG AND WHISTLE.
polypools. And this, pardonsky! is the way Romeopullupalleaps.1 Pose the pen, man, way me does. Way ole missa vellatooth fust show me how. Fourth power to her illpogue! Bould strokes for your life! Tip! This is Steal, this is Barke, this is Starn, this is Swhipt, this is Wiles, this is Pshaw, this is Doubbllinnbbay-yates.2 This is brave Danny weeping his spache for the popers. This is cool Connolly wiping his hearth with brave Danny. And this, regard ! how Chawleses Skewered parparaparnelligoes between brave Danny boy and the Connolly. Upanishadem! Top. Spoken hath L’arty Ma-gory. Eregobragh. Prouf! 3

And Kev was wreathed with his pother.

But, (that Jacoby feeling again. for fore-bitten fruit and, my Georgeous, Kevvy too he just loves his puppadums, I judge!) after all his autocratic writings of paraboles of famellicurbs and meddlied muddlingisms, thee faroots hof cullchaw end ate citrawn woodint wun able rep of the triperforator awlrite blast through his pergaman hit him where he lived and do for the blessted selfchuruls, what I think, smarter like it done for a manny another unpious of the hairydary quare quandary firstings till at length, you one bladdy bragger, by mercy-stroke he measured his earth anyway? could not but recken in his adder’s badder cadder way our frankson who, to be plain, he fight him all time twofeller longa kill dead finish bloody face blong you, was misocain. Wince

1 He, angel that I thought him, and he not aebel to speel eelyotripes., Mr Tellibly Divilcult!

2 When the dander rattles how the peacocks prance!

3 The Brownes de Browne — Browne of Castlehacknolan.

wan’s won! Rip!1 And his countinghands rose.
Formalisa. Loves deathhow simple!
Slutningsbane. 2

Service super-seding self. Catastrophe and Anabasis. The rotary pro-cessus and its reestablishment of reciprocities.WITH EBONISER. IN PIX. EUCHRE RISK, MERCI BUCKUP, AND MIND WHO YOU’RE PUCKING, FLEBBY.

Thanks eversore much, Pointcarried! I can’t say if it’s the weight you strike me to the quick or that red mass I was looking at but at the present momentum, potential as I am, I’m seeing rayingbogeys rings round me. Honours to you and may you be commended for our exhibitiveness! I’d love to take you for a bugaboo ride and play funfer all if you’d only sit and be the ballasted bottle in the porker barrel. You will deserve a rolypoly as long as from here to tomorrow. And to hell with them driftbombs and bottom trailers! If my maily was bag enough I’d send you a toxis. By Saxon Chromaticus, you done that lovely for me! Didn’t he now, Nubilina? Tiny Mite, she studiert whas? With her listeningin coiffure, her dream of Endsland’s daylast and the glorifires of being presainted maid to majesty. 3 And less is the pity for she isn’t the lollypops she easily might be if she had for a sample Virginia’s air of achievement. That might keep her from throwing delph.4 As I was saying, while retorting thanks, you make me a reborn of the cards. We’re offals boys ambows. 5 For I’ve flicked up all the crambs as they crumbed from your table um, singing glory allaloserem, cog it out, here goes a sum. So

1 A byebye bingbang boys! See you Nutcracker Sunday!

2 Chinchin Childaman! Chapchopchap!

3 Wipe your glosses with what you know.

4 If I’d more in the cups that peeves thee you could cracksmith your rows tureens.

5 Alls Sings and Alls Howls.

read we in must book. It tells. He prophets most who bilks the best.

The Twofold Truth and the Conjunctive Appetites of Oppositional Orexes. Trishagion.COME SI COMPITA CUNCTITI-TITILATIO? CONKERY CUNK, THIGH-THIGHT-TICKELLY-THIGH, LIG-GERILAG, TITTERITOT, LEG IN A TEE, LUG IN A LAW, TWO AT A TIE, THREE ON A THRICKY TILL OHIO OHIO IOIOMISS.
And that salubrated sickenagiaour of yaours have teaspilled all my hazeydency. Forge away, Sunny Sim! Sheepshopp. Bleating Goad, it is the least of things, Eyeinstye! Imagine it, my deep dartry dullard! It is hours giving, not more. I’m only out for celebridging over the guilt of the gap in your hiscitendency. You are a hundred thousand times welcome, old wort-sampler, hellbeit you’re just about as culpable as my woolfell merger would be. In effect I could engage in an energument over you till you were republicly royally toobally prussic blue in the shirt after.1 Trionfante di bestia! And if you’re not your bloater’s kipper may I never curse again on that pint I took of Jamesons. Old Keane now, you’re rod, hook and sinker, old jubalee Keane! Biddy’s hair. Biddy’s hair, mine lubber. Where is that Quin but he sknows it knot but what you that are my popular end-phthisis were born with a solver arm up your sleep. Thou in shanty! Thou in scanty shanty!! Thou in slanty scanty shanty!!! Bide in your hush! Bide in your hush, do! The law does not aloud you to shout. I plant my penstock in your postern, chinarpot. Ave! And let it be to all remembrance. Vale. Ovocation of maiding waters.2 For auld lang salvy steyne. I defend you to champ my scullion’s praises. To book alone belongs the lobe. Foremaster’s meed3 will mark tomorrow, when we are making pilscrummage to whaboggeryin with

1 From three shellings. A bluedye sacrifice.

2 Not Kilty. But the manajar was. He! He! Ho! Ho! Ho!

3 Giglamps, Soapy Geyser, The Smell and Gory M Gusty.

Abnegation is Adaptation. Cato. Nero. Saul. Aristotle. Julius Caesar. Pericles. Ovid. Adam, Eve. Domitian. Edipus Socrates. Ajax. Homer. Marcus Aurelius. Alcibiades. Lucretius.ENTER THE COP AND HOW. SECURES GUBERNANT URBIS TERROREM.
staff, scarf and blessed wallet and our aureoles round our neckkandcropfs where as and when Heavysciusgardaddy, parent who offers sweet-meats, will gift uns his Noblett’s surprize. With this laudable purpose in loud ability let us be singulfied. Betwixt me and thee hung cong. Item, mizpah ends.

But while the dial are they doodling dawd-ling over the mugs and the grubs? Oikey, Impostolopulos?1 Steady steady steady steady steady studiavimus. Many many many many many manducabimus.2 We’ve had our day at triv and quad and writ our bit as intermidgets. Art, literature, politics, economy, chemistry, human-ity, &c. Duty, the daughter of discipline, the Great Fire at the South City Markets, Belief in Giants and the Banshee, A Place for Every-thing and Everything in its Place, Is the Pen Mightier than the Sword? A Successful Career in the Civil Service,3 The Voice of Nature in the Forest,4 Your Favorite Hero or Heroine, On the Benefits of Recreation,5 If Standing Stones Could Speak, Devotion to the Feast of the Indulgence of Portiuncula, The Dublin Metropolitan Police Sports at Ballsbridge, De-scribe in Homely Anglian Monosyllables the Wreck of the Hesperus,6 What Morals, if any, can be drawn from Diarmuid and Grania?7 Do you Approve of our Existing Parliamentary System? The Uses and Abuses of Insects, A

1 The divvy wants that babbling brook. Dear Auntie Emma Emma Eates.

2 Strike the day off, the nightcap’s on nigh. Goney, goney gone!

3 R.C., disengaged, good character, would help, no salary.

4 Where Lily is a Lady found the nettle rash.

5 Bubabipibambuli, I can do as I like with what’s me own. Nyamnyam.

6 Able seaman’s caution.

7 Rarely equal and distinct in all things.

Noah. Plato. Horace. Isaac. Tiresias. Marius. Diogenes. Procne, Philo-mela. Abraham. Nestor. Cincin-natus. Leonidas. Jacob. Theocritus. Joseph. Fabius. Samson. Cain. Esop. Prometheus. Lot. Pompeius Magnus, Miltiades Strategos. Solon. Castor, Pollux. Dionysius. Sappho. Moses. Job. Catilina. Cadmus. Ezekiel. Solomon. Themistocles. Vitellius. Darius.

Visit to Guinness’ Brewery, Clubs, Advan-tages of the Penny Post, When is a Pun not a Pun? Is the Co–Education of Animus and Anima Wholly Desirable?1 What Happened at Clontarf? Since our Brother Johnathan Signed the Pledge or the Meditations of Two Young Spinsters,2 Why we all Love our Little Lord Mayor, Hengler’s Circus Entertainment, On Thrift,3 The Kettle–Griffith-Moynihan Scheme for a New Electricity Supply, Travelling in the Olden Times,4 American Lake Poetry, the Strangest Dream that was ever Halfdreamt. 5 Circumspection, Our Allies the Hills, Are Parnellites Just towards Henry Tudor? Tell a Friend in a Chatty Letter the Fable of the Grasshopper and the Ant,6 Santa Claus, The Shame of Slumdom, The Roman Pontiffs and the Orthodox Churches,7 The Thirty Hour Week, Compare the Fistic Styles of Jimmy Wilde and Jack Sharkey, How to Understand the Deaf, Should Ladies learn Music or Mathematics? Glory be to Saint Patrick! What is to be found in a Dustheap, The Value of Circumstantial Evidence, Should Spelling? Outcasts in India, Collecting Pewter, Eu,8 Proper and Regular Diet Necessity For,9 If You Do It Do It Now.

1 Jests and the Beastalk with a little rude hiding rod.

2 Wherry like the whaled prophet in a spookeerie.

3 What sins is pim money sans Paris!

4 I’ve lost the place, where was I?

5 Something happened that time I was asleep, torn letters or was there snow?

6 Mich for his pain, Nick in his past.

7 He has toglieresti in brodo all over his agrammatical parts of face and as for that hippofoxphiz, unlucky number, late for the christening!

8 Eh, Monsieur? O— Monsieur? Eu, Monsieur? Nenni No, Monsieur!

9 Ere we hit the hay, brothers, let’s have that response to prayer!

Xenophon. Pantocracy. Bimutualism. Interchangeabil-ity. Naturality. Superfetation. Stabimobilism. Periodicity. Consummation. Interpenetrative-ness. Predicament. Balance of the factual by the theoric Boox and Coox, Amallaga-mated.MAWMAW, LUK, YOUR BEEEFTAY’S FIZZIN OVER! KAKAO-POETIC LIPPUDENIES OF THE UNGUMP-TIOUS.

Delays are Dangerous. Vitavite! Gobble Anne: tea’s set, see’s eneugh! Mox soonly will be in a split second per the chancellory of his exticker.

Aun
Do
Tri
Car
Cush 1
Shay
Shockt
Ockt
Ni
Geg 2

Their feed begins. NIGHTLETTER

With our best youlldied greedings to Pep and Memmy and the old folkers below and beyant, wishing them all very merry Incar-nations in this land of the livvey and plenty of preprosperousness through their coming new yonks
from
jake, jack and little sousoucie
(the babes that mean too)

1 Kish is for anticheirst, and the free of my hand to him!

2 And gags for skool, and crossbuns and whopes he’ll enjoyimsolff over our drawings on the line!1Embed