61 ContributorsPour Out a Little Liquor Lyrics[Intro]
Yeah, pour out a little liquor for your homies, nigga
This one here go out to my nigga Mike Cooley
(Light up a fat one for this one!)
How you come up, man?

[Verse 1]
I started young, kickin' dust and livin' rough
You'd watch your mouth, around my mama you couldn't cuss, man
I had a down-ass homie though, we ran the streets
And on the scene at the age of fourteen, huh
I packed a nine and my nigga packed a forty-five
We drinkin' forties, little shorties livin' naughty lives
You couldn't stop us, long as I got my Glock, fuck the coppers
Hangin' on the block, slangin' rocks and makin' profits
I couldn't fuck with the school life
I was a fool, I'd play that motherfucker for a tool, man
Tonight'll be the night, that's what we thinkin'
Hustlin' in the rain, felt no pain 'cause we drinkin'
Playin' them hoes like manure
First let my nigga fuck and then I fuck, that's how we do her (haha)
It's two niggas comin' up out 'bout the hood
Livin' life just as good as we could
But since a bitch can't be trusted
Hoes snitched to the police, now my nigga's busted
The cops whoopin' on my nigga in jail
Tryna get a motherfucker to tell
And couldn't nobody diss my nigga
Damn, I miss my nigga, pour out a little liquor!
You might also like[Chorus]
My cousin died last year and I still can't let go
This goes out to all you so-called G's
My cousin died last year and I still can't let go
Pour out a little liquor for your real motherfuckin' partners
Don't let the drink get like that, y'all, huh
Pour out a little liquor!
My cousin died last year and I still can't let go
Pour out a little liquor!
My cousin died last year and I still can't let go
What's that you drinkin' on?

[Verse 2]
Drinkin' on gin, smokin' on blunts and it's on
Reminisce about my niggas that's dead and gone
And now they buried, sometimes my eyes still get blurry
'Cause I'm losin' all my homies and I worry
I got my back against a brick wall, trapped in a circle
Boxin' with them suckers 'til my knuckles turn purple
Mama told me, "Son, there'll be days like this."
Don't wanna think so, I hit the drink and stay blitzed
We had plans of bein' big-time G's
Rollin' in mob cars, movin' them keys
And now I roll up the window, blaze up some indo
Get tore down for my niggas in the pen', yo
Your son's gettin' big and strong
And I'd love him like one of my own, so you come home
And the years sure fly with a quickness
You do the time and I'll keep handlin' your business
That's the way it's supposed to be, homie
If you was me, you'd do the shit for me, homie
I can remember scrappin' back to back, throwin' dogs
On them suckers, runnin' up on this young hog
I hope my words can paint a perfect picture
And let you know how much a nigga miss ya
Pour out some liquor!
[Outro]
My cousin' died last year and I still can't let go
Look at you, drinkin' got you
Where you don't even give respect to your partners
Pour out some liquor, nigga!
It ain't like that, tip that shit over!
Pour out a little liquor!
This for my nigga Madman, Dagz, Hood, Silk, yeah
My cousin' died last year and I still can't let go
A little liquor for my homies, y'all
We in this motherfuckin' piece, yeah
My cousin' died last year and I still can't let go
Pour out a little liquor!
Young Queen, yeah
My cousin' died last year and I still can't let go
This one goes out to all my mack partners
Back in the motherfuckin' Bay
My cousin' died last year and I still can't let go
Oaktown still in the motherfuckin' house
(Pour out a little liquor!)
My nigga Richie Rich, Govenor
My cousin' died last year and I still can't let go
(I don't care, Night Train, Hennessy)
All my real motherfuckin' partners
(Pour out a little liquor!)
And all my real partners in Marin, fuck you busta-ass niggas!
My cousin' died last year and I still can't let go
Yeah, nigga man man, pour out a little liquor!11Embed