1 ContributorComfortable Lyrics[Intro]
“Take three”

[Verse 1]
My Mom and Dad both get more dates than me
But I’m just patiently waiting for the mate to be
I’m the mate to see if you’re Kate or Mika, but wait up, gee, uh, change the topic, me done
This back side is more wacky, I’m pulling out all the extra bits
It’s not just random, I’ve got a few ambiguous critical messages
I had to include some rhymes that popped into my head in this
This is a salad of ideas, I’m not a concoctor of beverages
If you want something smooth, you know where to go
High quality produced music, instrumentals, perfect flow
I wouldn’t call this underground, but these tracks come from down below
Out in the dirt, I put in work and birthed my amateurish show

[Verse 2]
Y’all are in the Grand Line, I’m going for the One Piece
Y’all be Jack and Jill with Sandler, I’m just Good Will Hunting
And I do exude a little wishing swag
Tying rhymes together oddly instead of following the tag
Comfortayble, what is that, some kind of dumb label?
Does that concept exist or is it just another fable?
I’m never truly comfortable, I’m just anxiously relaxed
Call me wack? Social media’s a waste of time, how bout that?
It’s relaxing, but not truly comforting
Because it soothes your mind, and then you have accomplished nothing
Because out of the millions who watch recipes time and time again
I’d estimate the amount that make them are only about thirteen!
That’s right, three more, I’m a bit optimistic
Catch me loving life and watch my peers staring at me, livid and afraid
Gotta be hateful to fit in these days
I’ll be an outsider if that’s the way my peeps decay
My remorse is that the beauty of life is so apparent that it’s not
Hidden in plain sight like a transparent dot
And of course, those who see it can’t share it
Those who breed it can’t spare it, and those who need it? Can’t care for it at all
The sport is called stockpile and hide out
It’s called be quiet like pop rocks riot in your mouth
And celebrate the life of peace once you’ve forfeited ambition to the beast
Of material possession and cessation to rise like yeast
That’s complacency
You might also like[Verse 3]
Here’s a bit of discourse, careful whatchu wish for
Because you take it, and it’s yours, and you can’t escape when laziness is at your door
It’s like a disease traveling coast to coast, country to country
Let’s run around like chickens until we’re all done loving
And TRYING TO LOVE, diving in and waiting for the feeling
It’s so revealing how we trick ourselves to wait for the floor or ceiling
Or the walls to push us out of our comfort zones
When we patiently just sit and say, “I want to be alone.”
Well if you wish for that, then please do and be yourself homie
But join a club or volunteer once you start to be lonely
I’m just the not-smart-at-all, life-loving, rap-writing kid
And when this ends? At least I’ll have another reason to live

[Verse 4]
I’m comfortable with my dreams, a living room with a stage
All possible if the right words fall onto the page
And if I don’t get rich, I’d be filled with false rage
Because if nobody likes me, then it goes both ways
SIKE!
100 miles I’d ride, on my bike
Just to give you milk and cookies, tuck you in, good night
Then ride back, 3am, just finished my final track
Headphones, helmet, away, bike on my bike rack
To take a mighty nice nap, then do it all again!
My friend, I live to serve, and I’m serving you my head on a platter!
Isn’t that what we call it, these modern day rappers?
The tongue snappers? Young quick wit poppers?
I’m the product on the shelf and you’re the shopper!
[Verse 5]
The record is squeaky clean, let me explain it
My soul is really old, back when the coolest men were patient
And I was born pretty late into a different generation
But the audience I’m aiming at are my people from various places
I mean gamers, old school, new school, memers
Hippies, beach peeps, rappers, free birds
As a matter of fact, I like to think I’m one for all
If you try to appeal to the masses, one or two might give a call
But if you try to appeal to a small audience in a common generic way
You might fail to receive recognition, seems to happen every day
If being yourself is like everyone else, don’t let me diss your game
But I love living and trying to not be the same

[Verse 6]
Not 200 IQ, I actually shoot for one
That’s a number that’s less than two but slightly greater than none
Messing with the smaller numbers, you can call me Fibonacci
I hit record on my laptop and bang, now y’all have got me
I bet these jams blow up and I get hit by the paparazzi
I’ll walk outside and eat some snacks and they’ll all sit, take pics, and watch me
And I’ll tell these clowns that I’ll answer all their questions
If they get down and sit in a circle with me in my dimension
And we’ll all go around and talk about our existential-
Ism, and then I’ll help the pensions of the real ones
Who open up, give them information and pics, the full cup
But in a silly way with sarcasm drenched in bitter love
Twitter dove? Go ahead and just follow me
This verse was off track like I’m your wack and local pharmacy
[Verse 7]
Every bar I speak is probably better than your best one
I jest son, but I’m so fly, I can teach you a lesson
21 tracks, 21 years of age
I figured I’d make the most of it in case this is just a phase
They say I always cease to amaze
I’m boring, like having solar beam but choosing to use haze
Come to find, some of y’all are mean spirited
Purple in the face and fingers like Beerus is
Trying to stand out in the crowd with your fearlessness
But you’re all just distancing yourself from the realest kids
People don’t want me to rap, but they can’t placate me
People who want me to rap? Well, I can placate ye
It’s ambient without ambien
Like I’m manly without manliness
I’m your nanny like that nanny did
Her names Fran, see, and mine can be it
If I changed it, but I think I’ll keep stormy
My flow’s a fat flash flood with no warning

[Verse 8]
I stay hydrated like a well oiled machine
I bite my tongue, but I try not to bite the mouth that feeds
My wacky lyrics, don’t be threatened by my high self-esteem
I love myself although I’m just a phosphorescent freak
I hate myself in some ways although I’m mild, lame, and meek
And I won’t inherit the earth, I’ll leave that to rich geeks
Like Bill Gates, a mix tape? This is just a thrill tape
Oooooo you don’t know me! You’re not god! Oh snap, wait!
I can’t assume your dietyness, my apologies
I’ll just pretend nobody’s ever gonna hear this hollering
I don’t care! Nobody knows! Slice the tracks up!
Put them in a salad! Put it in a blender!
And send that mess to Hollywood, Stormitive and movies
A match made in heaven!
I’d crank it up to eleven but I’m stuck on the number 9
Don’t wine, most rhymes don’t find dope lines

[Verse 9]
I don’t call it Tuesday, I call it Threesday
See bae? Society’s demands released may
I’m free, eh? Need that info on repeat-tay?
It’s seemplay, don’t ask how, but I beat the weak way
The qweek race? I’ll pass, take my tee-may
Everyday, the freaks say, “y u dubomb like D-day?”
Me way is just be a peep ray
Persevering marshmallow light
The meeanayng is that I’m soft and bright
Nice and qui-kay like spreentayng
I’ll chuck a couple sticks at you if you deem me elite Mate
Freeze frame, this my time to be a beastay
And I’m comfortable with that...
Yeah, whatchu thought this was, uptight, insecure, nervous, paranoid, paralyzed, paratroopa getting stomped on by the Mario’s and Luigi’s of the world?? Nah, I’m just comfortableEmbed