7 ContributorsPatience (ft. Nas) LyricsHere we are, here we are, yeah
This one right here is for the people
Sabali, Sabali, Sabali, yonkonte
Sabali, Sabali, Sabali, kiye
Ni kera mogo
Sabali, Sabali, Sabali, yonkonte
Sabali, Sabali, Sabali, kagni (Hey, yo, D, let's go all the way in on this one)
Ni kera mogo
Some of the smartest dummies can't read the language of Egyptian mummies
Plant a flag on the moon and can't find food for the starving tummies
Pay no mind to the youths 'cause it's not like the future depends on it
But save the animals in the zoo 'cause the chimpanzee them make big money
This is how the media pillages, on TV the picture is savages in villages
And the scientist still can't explain the pyramids
Evangelists making a living on the videos of ribs of the little kids
Stereotyping the image of the images and this is what the image is
You buy khaki pants and all of a sudden you say a Indiana Jones
And thief out gold and thief out the scrolls and even the buried bones
Some of the worst paparazzi's I've ever seen and I ever known
Put the worst on display so the world can see and that's all they will ever show
So the ones in the West will never move east and feel they could be at home
Get tricked by the Beast but where them gon' flee when the monster is fully grown?
Solomonic linage where them can't defeat and them could never clone
My spiritual DNA that print in my soul and I will forever own, Lord
Sabali, Sabali, Sabali, yonkonte (yeah, that's patience, it's what the old folks told me)
Sabali, Sabali, Sabali, kiye (can you get with that?)
Ni kera mogo
Sabali, Sabali, Sabali, yonkonte (discoverin' the world before this world, a world buried in time)
Sabali, Sabali, Sabali, kagni (uncovered with rhymes, it gets no realer)
Ni kera mogo
We born not knowing, are we born knowing all?
We growing wiser, are we just growing tall?
Can you read thoughts? Can you read palms?
Can you predict the future? Can you see storms coming?
The Earth was flat, if you went too far, you would fall off
Now the Earth is round, if the shape change again, everybody would start laugh
The average man can't prove of most of the things that he chooses to speak of
And still won't research and find out the root of the truth that you seek of
Scholars teach in universities and claim that they're smart and cunning
Tell them find a cure when we sneeze and that's when their nose start running
And the rich get stitched up when them get cut
Wanna heal them broken bones in the bush with the wet mud
Can you read signs? Can you read stars?
Can you make peace? Can you fight war?
Can you milk cows even though you drive cars?
Can you survive against all odds now?
Sabali, Sabali, Sabali, yonkonte (it's crazy)
Sabali, Sabali, Sabali, kiye (when you feed people the truth, you don't know how they gon' react)
Ni kera mogo
Sabali, Sabali, Sabali, yonkonte (you scared of wrong-doers, people that's just ignorant)
Sabali, Sabali, Sabali, kagni (and scared of the truth, we patient for now)
Ni kera mogo
Who wrote the Bible? Who wrote the Qur'an, and was it a lightning storm
That gave birth to the Earth and then dinosaurs were born?
Who made up words? Who made up numbers, and what kind of spell is mankind under?
Everything on the planet we preserve and can it, microwaved it, and try it
No matter what we'll survive it
What's hu-? What's -man? What's human?
Anything along the land we consumin', eatin', deletin', ruin
Tryin' to get paper, gotta have land, gotta have acres
So I can sit back like Jack Nicholson, watch niggas play the game like the Lakers
In a world full of fifty-two fakers, Gypsies, seances, mystical prayers
You superstitious, throw salt over your shoulders, make a wish for the day 'cause
Like somebody got a doll of me, stickin' needles in my arteries, but I can't feel it
Sometimes it's like, "pardon me, but I got a real big spirit"
I'm fearless, I'm fearless, don't you try and grab hold of my soul
It's like a military soldier since seven years old
I held real dead bodies in my arms, felt they body turn cold, oh
Why we born in the first place ff this is how we gotta go? Damn
Sabali, Sabali, Sabali, yonkonte (yeah)
Sabali, Sabali, Sabali, kiye (yeah, yeah, what)
Ni kera mogo
Sabali, Sabali, Sabali, yonkonte (this goes to all the wisdom and knowledge seekers of the world)
Sabali, Sabali, Sabali, kagni (Sabali, patience, yeah)
Ni kera mogoSee Damian Marley LiveGet tickets as low as $35You might also likeEmbed Patience Distant Relatives Nas & Damian "Jr. Gong" Marley reggae