1 ContributorTranslationsEspañolDeutschSech & Daddy Yankee & J Balvin & ROSALÍA & Farruko - Relación (Remix) [English Translation] Lyrics[Intro: Sech, J Balvin & Daddy Yankee]
Now everything's changed, it's her turn
Latino gang
Yesterday I saw her dancing on her own (Welcome to the remix!)
She looks prettier
Now that she's not with that man
That happiness like clothes takes her away

[Pre-Chorus: ROSALÍA, Sech & Daddy Yankee]
That I was always there when you weren't
It was so much pain that it didn't kill me anymore
Little by little I didn't need you anymore
And I was smiling while I was rolling it up
And you (Uh-uh-uh)
Saying it was a lack of attitude
But in this relationship I did more than you, yeh (Yeh-eh)
And in a state I sent you to say that (Da-ddy Yan-kee!)

[Chorus: Sech, ROSALIA & Daddy Yankee]
Now everything's changеd, it's her turn (Prr)
Mari and a bottle (What, what?)
Thanks' to the mistrеatment she became beautiful (What?)
Now you love her and she doesn't love you back
Now everything's changed, it's her turn
Party and a bottle
Grace' to mistreatment she became beautiful (D-D-D-D-D-D.Y)
Now you love her' and she don't love you (One; yeah; huh)
You might also like[Verse 1: Daddy Yankee]
Now she wants me to record her (Prr)
Hesitating and show it to him (Tell him)
She don't like to follow the boss, she's the boss (Hey)
She's gone your little princess, find yourself Fiona, because
Every weekend she's from party to party (Wuh)
Keep on killing the mood with bottle and weed
They left you a status there, there, there
It says "keep on throwing me and I didn't fall there, there" (What, what?)
You breached the contract, I put in what was missing
She likes the mistreatment, but not the one you gave her' (Ah)
They call her the Apple, she's got her iPhone, her iPad bitchin' (Eh, eh)
She drinks, she smokes, she fucks, what? (Ah, ah)
Every weekend he's from party to party
Keep killing the ganas' with bottle and mari (Let's go)
They left you a state there, there, there
Dedicated to you, it went like this: (Welcome to the remix)

[Verse 2: ROSALIA]
Did you think I was gonna cry for you? (Uhm)
You thought I was going to wait for you (No)
You thought you had me
But you never had me, I'm the Rosalía (Look)
If I carry so much chain, it's not for anyone to tie me up (Nah)
Don't let nobody rip my heart apart
You're playing with the player
The one that stomps hard, the one that kills her
[Chorus: Sech & J Balvin]
Now everything's changed, it's her turn
Mari and a bottle
Thanks' to the mistreatment she became beautiful
Now you love her and she loves you no more
And now everything's changed, it's her turn (Her turn)
Mari and a bottle (Oh)
Thanks to mistreatment she became beautiful (Yah)
Now you love her and she don't love you (Nah, nah; wuh!)

[Verse 3: J Balvin & Farruko]
It all started with the WhatsApp block
No matter how much you call her she won't answer either
Now she's only on a rumba and you're falling apart
You cry because you didn't value her tears
Even your mother says you didn't take care of her
Her heart hates you for the bad way you treated her
And if she sees you on the street she's sure to take you out of her mind
You fucked her as an asshole, now you're her asshole (Wuh)
You fell too low, at the drunken party
You deserve all the cacho' in your life (Take it)
And we already know that you've been hurt bad (Laramercy gang)
In life you pay for everything 'cause you were a bad ass (Fa-rru)

[Verse 4: Farruko]
Everything changed, it took a 360° turn
She got richer and she's ready to turn around
She don't want to hear from you, burning for sale
The fuck, brother, calm down, she passed you the bill (Bam-bam-bam-bam!)
And now she's rollin' down the street (Eah)
He got tired, he don't wanna chorus with nobody no more
She's got a taste for it and there's no stopping her now
And now it's hard to pull her again (Farru)
[Bridge: Farruko]
Now she wants the road
And now more than now she's single
She drinks and smokes all night long
And it gives her a hell of a buzz
When she gets drunk
She hears "Safaera"
And she's got the bellaquera
But he don't give it to just anybody
Pri-yah-yah-yah-yah-yah-yah, Farru!

[Chorus: Sech, Farruko & Daddy Yankee]
Now everything's changed, it's her turn (Prr!)
Mari and a bottle (What, what?)
Thanks' to the mistreatment she became beautiful (What?)
Now you love her and she doesn't love you (Wuh, wuh)
Now everything's changed, it's her turn (What?)
Hookah and a bottle (D-D-D-D-D.Y!)
Thanks' to the mistreatment she became beautiful
Now you love her and she don't love you back

[Outro: Sech]
Yeah, huhEmbed Relación - Remix Relación (Remix) Sech;Daddy Yankee;J Balvin;ROSALÍA;Farruko reggae