139 ContributorsTranslationsScots’93 ’Til Infinity Lyrics[Intro: Tajai]
Yo, whassup? This is Tajai of the mighty Souls of Mischief crew
I'm chillin' with my man Phesto, my man A-Plus
And my man Op', you know he's dope
(Yo, yeah, you know what I'm sayin'?)
But right now, y'know, we just maxin' in the studio (Chillin')
We hailin' from East Oakland, California (Yeah)
And, um, sometimes it gets a little hectic out there
(Haha, we just chillin')
But right now, yo, we gon' up you on how we just chill

[Verse 1: Opio]
Dial the seven digits, call up Bridgette
Her man's a midget, plus she got friends, yo, I can dig it!
Here's a 40 — swig it! You know it's frigid
I got 'em chillin' in the cooler, break out the ruler
Damn! That's the fattest stoge I ever seen
The weather's keen in Cali
Gettin' weeded makes it feel like Maui
Now we feel the good vibrations
So many females, so much inspiration

[Verse 2: A-Plus]
I get inspired by the blunts too! (Too)
I'll front you (You), if you hang with a bunk crew (Chump)
I roam the strip for bones to pick
When I find one, I'm gon'
Take her home and quickly do this (Yep)
I need not explain this (Nah!)
A-Plus is famous, so get the anus!
You might also like[Verse 3: Tajai]
Hey, Miss! Who's there? I'm through there
No time to do hair; the flick's at eight, so get straight
You look great, let's grub now
A rubdown sounds flavor, later there's the theater
(Yeah, that sounds nice)
We in the cut, the cinema was mediocre (It was cool, you know)
Take her to the crib so I can stroke her

[Verse 4: Phesto]
Kids get broke for they skins when I'm in
Close range, I throws game at your dip like handball
'Cause the man's all that! All phat!
I'm D to chill from '93 'til (Aha!)

[Hook: Souls of Mischief]
Yeah, this is how we chill from '93 'til (Yeah)
This is how we chill from '93 'til
This is how we chill from '93 'til
This is how we chill from '93 'til
Uh-huh, this is how we chill from '93 'til
This is how we chill from '93 'til
This is how we chill from '93 'til
This is how we chill… from '93 'til

[Verse 5: A-Plus]
Huh! My black Timbs do me well (Yeah)
When I see a fool and he says he heard me tell (What?)
Another person's busy-ness, I cause dizziness
Until you stop actin' like a silly bitch
[Verse 6: Phesto]
Yo, crews are jealous 'cause we get props
The cops wanna stop our fun, but the top
Is where we're dwellin', swell and fat, no sleep
I work fit, and jerks get their hoes sweeped
Under their noses, this bro's quick
To hit blunts and flip once I'm chillin' 'cause my crew's close, kid

[Verse 7: Tajai]
I'm posted, most kids accept this as cool
I exit, 'cause I'm an exception to the rule (Hell no, I'm out)
I'm steppin' to the cool spots where crews flock
(Yo what's up, how you doin'?)
To snare a dip, or see where the shit that's flam-bee
Plan B not as poppin'
So I got tons of indo and go to the Owen's basement
My ace been fattenin' up tracks
Time to get prolific with the whiz, kid

[Verse 8: Opio]
Greenbacks in stacks, don't even ask who got the fat stacks
We can max pumpin' phat tracks
Exchangin' facts about impacts, 'cause in facts
My freestyle talent overpowers, brothers can't hack it
They lack wit, we got the mack shit
'93 to infinity — kill all that wack shit!
[Hook: Souls of Mischief]
Ha! This is how we chill from '93 till
This is how we chill from '93 'til
This is how we chill from '93 'til
This is how we chill… from '93 'til
Yeah, this is how we chill from '93 'til' (Uh-huh)
This is how we chill from '93 'til
This is how we chill from '93 until
This is how we chill from '93 'til (Yeah)

[Verse 9: Phesto]
I be coolin', school's in session, but I'm fresh in
Rappin', so I take time off to never rhyme soft
I'm off on my own shit with my own clique
Roll many back-roads with a fat stoge and blunts, foldin' runts
Holdin' stunts captive with my persona
Plus a bomber, zestin'
Niggas is testin' my patience, but I stay fresh and

[Verse 10: Tajai]
Restin' at the mall, attendance on 'noid (Get off!)
But I am shoppin' for my wish to exploit
Some few fits, some new kicks
I often do this, 'cause it's the pits not bein' dipped

[Verse 11: Opio]
Flipped! The flyer attire females desire
Baby, you can step to this if you admire
The exxx-traordinary dapper rapper
Keep tabs on your main squeeze before I tap her

[Verse 12: A-Plus]
I mack her, attack her with the smoothness
I do this, peepin' what my crew gets, huh! (Shit)
Loot, props, respect and blunts to pass
Crews talk shit, but in my face, they kiss my ass (Smack!)
They bite flows, but we make up new ones
If you're really dope, why ain't you signed yet?
But I get my loot from Jive/Zomba, I'ma bomb ya
You will see, from now 'til infinity

[Hook: Souls of Mischief]
Ahhh (Yeah), this is how we chill from '93 'til
This is how we chill from '93 'til
Huh! This is how we chill from '93 'til
Yo! This is how we chill from '93 'til
Aww, yeah, this is how we chill from '93 'til
This is how we chill from '93 'til
Yeah, this is how we chill from '93 'til
This is how we chill from '93 'til

[Outro: Souls of Mischief]
Haha! Just coolin' out, y'know what I'm sayin'?
But, but who's chillin' around the Land, y'know?
Yo, who's chillin'? I think I know who's chillin'
Yeah, tell me who's chillin' then, A-Plus
Casual — you know he's chillin'
Yo! Pep Love — he gotta be chillin'
Jay-Biz — you know he's chillin'
A-yo, man, my — my man Snupe is chillin', man
Yo, Mike G — you know he's here chillin'
Yeah, my man Mike P — you know he gotta chill
Del the Funky Homosapien is chillin'
Aye, aye, my man Domino — yo, he's chillin'
Yeah… and it's like that to the end (Yeah, like that)
For infinity, you know what I'm sayin'?
'92 is over, '93, that's when we rule (We the dopest)
You know what I'm sayin'? Peace50Embed