13 ContributorsMovie Quotes Used in Music LyricsIn music, movie quotes are often used as samples, or by the artists themselves to make a point or set the tone. To make discerning these quotes easier, this page brings together all the quotes that have been used in music. Simply use the Ctrl+F/Cmd+F function to search for what you hear, and you may find your quote!Resources for Finding Movie QuotesQuoDB
ScriptsQuotes10 Things I Hate About You (1999)I hate the way you talk to me and the way you cut your hair. I hate the way you drive my car, I hate it when you stare; I hate your big dumb combat boots and the way you read my mind; I hate you much it makes me sick; It even makes me rhyme.
I hate it. I hate the way you're always right. I hate it when you lie. I hate it when you made me laugh. You’ve been worse when you made me cry. I hate it when you're not around and-and you didn't call. But mostly I hate the way I don’t hate you. Not even close, not even a little bit, not even at allAmanti d'Oltretomba (1965)Ugh, you're a monster! You don't know the hate I have inside, if you could see it, you'd be terrified. You would kill me at once, but even by killing me you can't free yourself from my hatred. You can kill my body, but I'll never leave you in peace!American Beauty (1999)How are you?
Well, it's been a long time since anybody’s asked me that.
American GangsterYour success took a shot at you. What are you going to do now? How are you gonna kill it? You’re gonna become unsuccessful? Frank, you can be successful and have enemies, uh?
Be unsuccessful too, and even have friends.
Back to the FutureWhat if they say I'm no good? What if they say "Get out of here, kid. You got no future?"I guess you guys aren’t ready for that yet, but your kids are gonna love it.
Black Sunday (1960)He's frightened to death. Go and help him, will you? I want to have another look around.Frankly, I prefer it better outside. Not only is there no air in here, but it's also kind of gloomy.
Carlito's WaySorry boys, all the stitches in the world can’t sew me together again. Lay down, lay down. Gonna stretch me out in Fernandez Funeral Home on Hun and Ninth Street. Always knew I'd make a stop there. But a lot later than a whole gang of people thought. Last of the Mohicans. Well, maybe not the last. Can't come with me on this trip, Loaf. Gettin' the shakes now. Last call for drinks. Bar's closin' down. Sun's out. Where we goin' for breakfast? Don't wanna go far. Rough night. Tired, baby. Tired...Here comes the pain!
Changing (1971)And I don't think that that's a selfish want, I really don't. I'm not saying that I have this capacity because it's hard to develop that capacity on your own, when you're being stopped at every turn
Donnie DarkoIt is if everyone dies alone
Does that scare you?
I don't wanna be alone'A storm is coming,' Frank says. 'A storm that will swallow the children. And I will deliver them from the kingdom of pain. I'll deliver the children back to their doorsteps. I'll send the monsters back to the underground. I'll send them back to a place where no one else can see them, except for me.'
Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless MindToo many guys think I'm a concept, or
I complete them, or I'm gonna make them alive
I'm just a fucked up girl who's lookin' for my own peace of mind
Don't assign me yours
Home Alone (1990)You've been a good boy this year?
I think so.
You swear to it?
No, I've been kind of a pain lately. I said some things I shouldn't have. I really haven't been too good this year.
Yeah.
I'm kind of upset about it, because I really like my family, even though sometimes I say I don't, sometimes I even think I don't. Do you get that?
Home Alone 2: Lost in New York (1992)Merry Christmas, you filthy animal. And a happy New Year!
Full Metal Jacket (1987)What is your major malfunction, numbnuts?
Jennifer's BodyYou're killing people
No, I'm killing boys
Boys are just placeholders, they come and they go
You're my best friend, and I wanna help you
But I won't let you kill again
That's a lose-lose
Kill Bill: Volume 1Now if any of you sons of bitches got anything else to say, now's the fucking time!
Menace II SocietyThen hurry up and buy, just pay and leave.
Ayy man, I said I'ma pay you, why don't you calm your motherfuckin' nerves? Damn!
Hurry up and go.
Why don't you give my homeboy his change?
I don't want any trouble, just get out.
It's a damn job.
I feel sorry for your mother.
What did you say about my momma? You feelin' sorry for who? Huh?
I don't want any trouble, just get out!
What the fuck you said about my momma?
I don't want any trouble, just get out!
You talkin' shit, every time I come to this motherfucker you got something to say! *gunshots*
Yeah, yeah.
Ayy, where's the motherfuckin' videotape? Gimme the motherfucking videotape, bring the motherfucking videotape right now!
Ayy, nigga, ayy, clean the cash register!You really fucked up nigga.
Fuck.
Get your ass out of the car nigga.
Get the fuck out. Break yourself nigga, break yourself!
Son of a bitch!
Get your motherfucking ass out of car!
Alright nigga, chill.
Cain, you gotta get out of the car man.
Nigga don't make me rush you, get your ass out of the car, get out of the car.
Alright.
Get out!
Alright nigga, I'm comin'!
I got your life, get your motherfuckin' ass out of the car now!
Bitch move!
Shoot that nigga, do you?!
Fuck you—*gunshots*
Aw shit...
Oh shit, that's Cain, ayy, they've been jacked, come on.
Shit, that's Cain and Harold.
Nightmare CastleUgh, you're a monster
Paid in FullThe shit on the street is garbage. This crud that's washed with acetone and kerosene. This is the best product, and you gonna be the only one in the street holding this.
$25,000.
25 is the street price.7,000.
That's right, for every key that you move. Forget about heroin. This is the wave of the future, baby.
Psycho (1960)Well I-I run the office and eh, tend the cabins and grounds and do little, eh errands for my mother. The ones she allows I might be capable of doing
And do you go out with friends?
Well a-a boy's best friend is his motherWe're all in our private traps
Clamped in them, and none of us can ever get out
Sometimes we deliberately step into those traps
I was born in mine; I don't mind it anymore
Oh but you should, you should mind it
Oh I do, ha, but I say I don't, ha
Requiem for a DreamOh my God, Harry.
Resident EvilGet out, you can't be in here. Please, you're all going to die down here.
Saw (2004)I woke up and all I could taste was blood.
ScarfaceSay hello to my little friend!In this country, you gotta make the money first. Then when you get the money, you get the power. Then when you get the power, then you get the women.You fuck with me, you fuckin' with the best!You need people like me. You need people like me so you can point your fuckin' fingers and say, 'That's the bad guy.'So say good night to the bad guy! Come on. The last time you gonna see a bad guy like this again, let me tell you.The world is yours!Come on, pelicans! Fly, fly away!Rule number one: don't underestimate the other guy's greed. Rule number two: don't get high on your own supply.The time has come. We gotta expand. The whole operation. Distribution. New York, Chicago, L.A. We gotta set our own mark and enforce it.
Scream (1996)Hello?
Hello.
Yes?
Who is this?
Who are you trying to reach?
What number is this?
Well, what number are you trying to reach?Listen asshole—
No, you listen to me bitch. If you hang up on me again I'll gut you like a fish.Hey, we're not finished yet. Final question. Are you ready?
Please... leave me alone...
Answer the question and I will. Which door am I at?
What?
There are two main doors to your house. The front door and the back patio door. If you answer correctly, you may live.
Shakes the ClownAs soon as that camera is off, he gonna fuck that little dog.
Short EyesSomeday, I'm gonna be walkin' down the streets, mindin' my own business... and bam! I'm gon' be shot by some pig who's gonna swear that it was a mistake. I accept that as a part of my destiny! Sí, es mi destino morir en la calle como un perro! Hahaha.
Sorority Babes in the Slimeball Bowl-O-RamaYeah, it was very stupid.
Taken (2008)I will find you, and I will kill you.
The Breakfast Club (1985)My God, are we gonna be like our parents?
Not me...ever.
It's unavoidable, it just happens.
What happens?
When you grow up, your heart dies...
Who cares?
I care.
The Dark KnightYou either die a hero, or you live long enough to see yourself become the villain.
The GodfatherI'm gonna make him an offer he can't refuse.Leave the gun. Take the cannoli.
The MatrixI know you're out there. I can feel you now. I know that you're afraid of us. You're afraid of change. I don't know the future. I didn't come here to tell you how this is going to end. I came here, to tell you how it's going to begin. I'm going to hang up this phone, and then I'm going to show these people what you don't want them to see. I'm going to show them a world without you. A world without rules and controls, without borders or boundaries. A world where anything is possible. Where we go from there is a choice I leave to you.
The Omen (1976)Look at me, Damien. It's all for you!
The Picture of Dorian GrayAh! Lord Henry, I wish you would tell me how to become young again.
Can you remember any great error that you committed in your early days, Duchess?
A great many, I fear.
Then commit them over again, to get back one's youth, one has merely to repeat one's follies.
What a delightful theory!
A dangerous theory, that is one of the great secrets of life. Nowadays most people die of a sort of creeping common sense, and discover when it's too late that the only things one never regrets are one's mistake.
The Shawshank RedemptionEllis Boyd Redding. Your files say you've served 40 years of a life sentence. You feel you've been rehabilitated?
Rehabilitated? Well, now, let me see. You know, I don't have any idea what that means.
Well, it means you're ready to rejoin society…
I know what you think it means, sonny
The Usual SuspectsGreatest trick the devil ever pulled was convincing the world he didn't exist. And like that, he's gone.
Vanilla SkyDavid, I love you. I fucking love you. I fucking love you, fuck! You fucked me four times the other night, David. You've been inside me, I swallowed your cum, that means something.
Four times, it means something, David, four times... for 24 hours a day, Dave, I live with this aching possibility that you might call me to do something. Fuck!Hey, woah, woah, woah. Don't do this, don't do this.
Julie... slow down, hey. Stop the car. Let's go to your house and we'll talk this out, I want to see where you - I want you to stop the car!
Weird Science (1985)So, what would you little maniacs like to do first?
Wild at HeartI'd go to the far end of the world for you, baby. You know I would.
Rockin' good news!
Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory (1971)We are the music-makers, and we are the dreamers of dreams.
2Embed If You Don't Know Me by Now - 2008 Remaster A New Flame (Expanded Version) Simply Red british