113 ContributorsMs. Fat Booty Lyrics[Hook]
I know I can't afford to stop
For one moment, that it's too soon to forget
I know I can't afford to stop
For one moment, that it's too soon to forget

[Intro]
Man, duke, I was in love with this girl, duke
I was tore up, dog, I'm tellin' you, man
Shit is wild, man, for real
It's, she's from, let me tell you about her

[Verse 1]
Yo, in she came with the same type game
The type of girl givin' out the fake cellphone and name
Big fame, she like cats with big things
Jewels chipped, money clip, phone flip, the six range
I seen her on the Ave., spotted her more than once
Ass so fat that you could see it from the front
She spot me like paparazzi, shot me a glance
In that Catwoman stance with the fat booty pants, hot damn!
What's your name, love? Where you came from?
Neck and wrist laced up, very little make-up
The Schwinns at the Reebok gym tone your frame up
Is sugar and spice the only thing that you made of?
I tried to play it low key, but couldn't keep it down
Asked her to dance and she was like, "Yo, I'm leavin' now"
An hour later, sounds from Jamaica
She's sippin' Cris' straight up, skankin', windin' her waist up
Scene 2 — my fam's throwin' a jam
Fareed is on the stand, big things is in the plans
The brother Big Mu makes space for me to move
"A-yo, this my man Mos, baby, let me introduce"
I turned around (Say word!)
You was the same pretty bird who I had priorly observed
Tryin' to play me for the herb (Yeah, that's her)
Shocked as hell she couldn't get it together
I just played along and pretended I never met her
How you feelin'? "Oh, I'm fine", my name is Mos "I'm Sharice"
I heard so much good about you, it's nice to finally meet
We moved to the booth reserved for crew especially
And honey love ended up sittin' directly next to me
I'm type polite, but now I'm lookin' at her skeptically
'Cause baby girl got all the right weaponry
Designer fabric, shoes and accessories
Chinky eyes, sweet voice is fuckin' with me mentally
We conversated, made her laugh — yeah, you know me, bro
Even though I know the steelo, she wild sweet, yo
I'm 'bout to murk, I say peace to the family
She hop up like, "How you gon' leave before you dance with me?"
See Yasiin Bey LiveGet tickets as low as $130You might also like[Chorus]
I know I can't afford to stop
For one moment, that it's too soon to forget
I know I can't afford to stop
For one moment, that it's too soon to forget

[Interlude]
She blew my whole head with that, duke, I was like, word?
I played it low though
I was like, yeah, aight, come on then, let's go
Niggas was mad, niggas was so sick, I tell (ya)
Yo, honey was so blazin', she was just..
Yo, she looked like Jayne Kennedy, word bond, to my mother, man
She was that ill, man
She take me to the dance floor and she start whisperin' to me..

[Verse 2]
"Yo, let me apologize for the other night, I know it wasn't right
But baby, you know what it's like, some brothers don't be comin' right"
I understand, I'm feelin' you
Besides, "Can I have a dance?" ain't really that original
We laughed about it, traced her arms across my shoulder blades
They playin' Lovers Rock, I got the folded fingers on her waist
Heatin' my blood up like the Arizona summer
Song finished then she whispered, "Honey, let's exchange numbers"
Scene 3 — weeks of datin', late night conversation
In the crib, heart racin', tryin' to be cool and patient
She touched on my eyelids, the room fell silent
She walked away smilin', singin' Gregory Isaacs
Like, "If I don't, if I don't have you"
Showin' me her tan line and her tattoo
Playin' Sade, Sweetest Taboo
Burnin' candles, all my other plans got cancelled
Man, I smashed it like a Idaho potato
She call me at my J.O., "Come now", I can't say no
Ginseng tree trunks, rockin' the P-funk
Cockin' her knees up, champion lover, not ease up
Three months — she call, I feel I'm runnin' a fever
Six months — I'm tellin' her I desperately need her
Nine months — flu-like symptoms when shorty not around
I need more than to knock it down, I'm really tryin' to lock it down
Midnight, we hook up and go at it
Burn a stoge and let her know, sweetheart, I got to have it
She tellin' me commitment is somethin' she can't manage
Wake up the next mornin', she gone like it was magic
Aww, damn it! My shit is on Harrison Ford Frantic
My 911's unanswered by my fly Taurus enchantress
Next week, Mu hit me up, I saw Sharice at the Kittie club
With some bangin' ass Asian playin' lay it down and lick me up
What!?55Embed Ms. Fat Booty Black On Both Sides Mos Def hardcore