2 ContributorsCan I Get It? Lyrics[Intro]
I don’t care, I’m mixing this raw

[Chorus: EB]
Can I get it, can I get it, can I get it? (get what?)
Can I get it, can I get it, can I get it? (whatcha want/need?)
Can I get it, can I really?
So tell me what you want, what you really, really want (what it is it?)
Can I get it, can I get it, can I get it? (get what?)
Can I get it, can I get it, can I get it? (whatcha want/need?)
Can I get it, can I really?

[Verse 1]
I kicked a couple habits
But I keep coming back to you
Girl, you acting like a baddie
But your fronts are the passion
I couldn’t understand it but I kept coming back and
Regrettable actions they flood my mind frame
We out in the limelight, we gotta just hide shame through high gradе
Herb burning, Fella Kuti off that highlife
Drums grimy, likе we RZA off that fye Thai
False pleasures keep me prisoned
I gotta keep it real to the millions that’ll listen
Another victim to the hedonistic damn visions
Got played a fool, but no repeats on my mission
This ain’t a diss sound, but, girl you toxic and proud
So lost, so loud
Inequity your cloud
It was never meant to be, that was my doubt
Now I know it was right that I broke it off before I drowned
You might also like[Chorus: EB]
Can I get it, can I get it, can I get it? (get what?)
Can I get it, can I get it, can I get it? (whatcha want/need?)
Can I get it, can I really?
So tell me what you want, what you really, really want (what it is it?)
Can I get it, can I get it, can I get it? (get what?)
Can I get it, can I get it, can I get it? (whatcha want/need?)
Can I get it, can I really?

[Verse 2]
I need my soul to stop stressing about my case
Everything’s according to plan, I’m not too late
September 20, the birthdate, I’ve been so based
Emmanuel, the government name, to God unphased
We got the
Child soldiers breaking bread with the Judas
Acting surprised when they double screwed by a Brutus
It’s funny how we go for pleasures so foolish
End up with useless feelings in computers
The wishes never came through
You looping through the same view
Saying things like “You know the pain that I’ve been through?”
Well, we in the same coupe
But, I can get it if I put in the work in like shoop (shoop baby, shoop)
Can I get it though
Or is it out of the question though
Who really knows?Embed