1 ContributorThe Mystery (YouVersion Devotional) LyricsIntroductionHey, I'm Brooke Ligertwood from Hillsong Worship, thanks for joining me.The MysteryLet's read together today from Hebrews Chapter 1 and Colossians Chapter 1, let's begin at Hebrews. It says:1 In the past God spoke to our ancestors through the prophets at many times and in various ways, 2 but in these last days he has spoken to us by his Son, whom he appointed heir of all things, and through whom also he made the universe. 3 The Son is the radiance of God’s glory and the exact representation of his being, sustaining all things by his powerful word. After he had provided purification for sins, he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty in heaven. 4 And so he became as much superior to the angels, as the name he has inherited is superior to theirs.Pretty amazing.

Now look with me at Colossians Chapter 1, I'm reading from verse 15, through to verse 20, and then skipping over to verse 26: 15 The Son is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn over all creation. 16 For in him all things were created: things in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or powers or rulers or authorities; all things, have been created through him and for him. 17 He is before all things, and in him all things hold together. 18 And he is the head of the body, the church; the beginning, and the firstborn from among the dead, so that in everything he might have the supremacy. 19 For God was pleased to have all his fullness dwell in him, 20 and through him to reconcile to himself all things, whether things on earth or things in heaven, by making peace through his blood, shed on the cross.⏲1:25

Two more verses. Colossians 1:26 26 The mystery that has been kept hidden for ages and generations, is now disclosed to the Lord’s people. 27 To them God has chosen to make known among the Gentiles the glorious riches of this mystery, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory. The WordThere's a lot of scriptures I know, but that's a good thing.

Hum, Colossians 1:26, we see it speaking about this mystery; that was hidden for ages, and then generations but has now been revealed to us. It speaks, of a mystery, through whom the whole universe was created. And that, the axis of the universe, is actually; God's will and God's word, and that our very existence, is a reality because of God's will.

Throughout creation, we've seen these heavy hints and hear distinct echoes of our Maker, and His love for us. Indeed, since the very beginning, from the garden God has been calling to us, [beckoning?] us to come, to walk with Him, to know Him, to enjoy Him.

⏲2:25
Hebrews 1 says...
That God has spoken, repeatedly, in past generations, through various ways, like in creation, and through the prophets. But it says very specifically, that in these last days, He has spoken distinctively, through His Son, the person of Jesus Christ.
Colossians 1:15, very clearly states:
That the Son is the image, of the invisible God. In other words, this mystery, it's not a mystery anymore; the mystery is obscured no longer.

If we want to know about the character of our Creator, we look to Christ. If we want to know how God would have us value people: the lost, the lonely, the doubters, the disenfranchised; we look at how Jesus treated these people.

If we want to know how serious the issue of our sin is, and just how much the Father loves us, we look to the cross, and we see the Son of God paying the ultimate price, to reconcile us to the Father that we might enjoy everlasting life, and friendship with Him.

⏲3:25

And if we need to be reminded, that the resurrection power of God, is at work in our lives in this very moment, we can look to the risen Christ, and remember that He is interceding for us, and that we have an eternal hope that cannot be extinguished, by the most excruciating of earthly circumstances.OutroIt isn't possible to grasp, the infinite depths, and beauty, and wonder, of the person of Jesus Christ, or to overestimate the power of His name.
So would you, join with me in the next few moments, lift up your praise to Him, lift up your worship to Him, and in doing so, find fresh strength, joy, and hope for today...  in the beautiful, wonderful, powerful​ name of Jesus.

⏲4:05To What a Beautiful Name...[Bridge]
Death could not hold You
The veil tore before You
You silenced the boast of sin and grave
The heavens are roaring
The praise of Your glory
For You are raised to life again
You have no rival
You have no equal
Now and forever God You reign
Yours is the Kingdom
Yours is the glory
Yours is the Name above all names

[Chorus]
What a powerful Name it is
What a powerful Name it is
The Name of Jesus Christ my King
What a powerful Name it is
Nothing can stand against
What a powerful Name it is
The Name of Jesus

[Outro]
You have no rival
You have no equal
Now and forever God You reign
Yours is the Kingdom
Yours is the glory...Embed What A Beautiful Name What A Beautiful Name Hillsong Worship;Brooke Ligertwood world-music