1 ContributorEvery Iron Maiden Song Ranked From Worst to Best LyricsIn the 40-plus years since their 1975 formation, Iron Maiden have served as the embodiment of all that defines heavy metal. In this fan-validated genre, they’ve done everything on their own terms, even back in their earliest days where they refused to conform to punk standards in order to secure a record deal. The unwavering Steve Harris had a vision, compromising nothing (except maybe for the tempo of “Flight of Icarus”) as Iron Maiden’s timeless songs and mythical stage productions won fans over worldwide with little help from the mainstream so many of their peers thrived on.

Boasting, in our estimation, the strongest catalog in metal, ranking every song from Eddie and the boys was a daunting but welcome challenge. Each song a storybook of sorts, Iron Maiden have taken their listeners through the war-torn skies where fighter pilots clashed in World War II, ushered the condemned on the lonely walk to the gallows, traveled back to ancient Egypt where men became gods (not a far cry from their immortal heavy metal status) and through other historic moments and realms of fantastic escape through literature and film.

Even in the 21st century, Iron Maiden’s output has contested their stunning seven album streak in the ‘80s. Not content to resign themselves to being a greatest hits band, they’ve alternated album tours with nods to specific eras in their past, demonstrating the staying power of their entire catalog, even resurrecting two classics from the divisive Blaze Bayley era on their 2018 “Legacy of the Beast” tour.

No other band has maintained such a level of dominance for so long, a notion that becomes soberingly evident as you scroll through our ranking of Iron Maiden’s songs below, with dozens of fan-favorites appearing well beyond the 75 mark.

Up the irons today, tomorrow and for all eternity — even if eternity should fail.

Every Iron Maiden Song Ranked From Worst to Best
Scroll through the gallery to see how we ranked every song Iron Maiden have written.


165. "The Angel and the Gambler" - 'Virtual XI' (1998)
The Blaze Bayley era of Iron Maiden coincided with a massive downturn in the acceptance of ‘80s heavy metal. The band was clearly struggling, and “The Angel and the Gambler” is the biggest miss of their career from the chintzy “Baba O’Reilly” ripoff to the cartoon soundboard orchestration to the painstakingly repetitive chorus that goes on for three minutes more than it should have. Now, onto better things...

164. "Weekend Warrior" - 'Fear of the Dark' (1992)
If there’s one thing we didn’t want Iron Maiden to write a song about, it was football (they call it “football,” we call it “soccer”). Okay, football hooliganism in this case, but “Weekend Warrior” was still a lyrical square peg in a heavy metal world full of dragon and/or spaceship-shaped holes. Just so you know. (DL)

163. "I Live My Way" - 'The X Factor' (1995)
Only available on the 12-inch vinyl version of the “Man On The Edge” single, “I Live My Way” probably wins an award for being one of the most obscure Maiden songs. Sadly, it’s not one of the most memorable. (DL)

162. "Burning Ambition" - "Running Free" Single (1980)
Easily the worst song Maiden recorded with Paul Di’Anno, it doesn’t fit in with the rest of the output from that era. Had they continued down this road, they’d be little more than a mainstream leaning hard rock band. It makes an interesting B-side to “Running Free,” but we’re glad it didn’t make the cut for the band’s flawless self-titled debut. (BI)
161. "Nodding Donkey Blues" - 'Fear of the Dark' (1992)
Iron Maiden never were a blues band but they definitely know how to have fun with the genre. This B-side to “Be Quick Or Be Dead” is a prime example. Let’s just say that this song is kind of their tongue-in-cheek version of “Whole Lotta Rosie.” Bonus: a boogie-woogie piano solo, during which Bruce deadpans “There should be some kind of guitar solo here…” (BI)

160. "Quest for Fire" - 'Piece of Mind' (1983)
Welcome to the worst Iron Maiden song of the ‘80s. Films have provided Maiden with rich lyrical inspiration, but on “Quest for Fire,” they tread in the shallowest of waters, nicking the 1981 film of the same name (which was adapted from the 1911 book of the same name) for a source material. It’s a ham-fisted attempt to write about early man’s discovery of fire and the subsequent pursuit for those precious embers, but it comes across as a drunken studio romp rife with hokey riffing and bottom-feeding lyrics. For all the classics Harris gave us, he’s earned at least one pass. He’s lucky “The Trooper” is also on ‘Piece of Mind.’ (JD)

159. "Como Estais Amigos" - 'Virtual XI' (1998)
It turned out to be Blaze Bayley’s swan song, but “Como Estasis Amigos” was one of the few songs on ‘Virtual XI’ that really put his voice to good use. Unfortunately, the album’s thin sonics and fatal lack of urgency made this a less emotional finale than it could’ve been. (DL)

158. "Black Bart Blues" - "Can I Play With Madness" Single (1988)
The B-side to “Can I Play With Madness?” could have been called “OK, Now I’m Playing With Madness!” It’s easy to imagine that, after working on the heavy and proggy ‘Seventh Son Of A Seventh Son,’ Maiden wanted to have some light-hearted fun. This Van Halen-like jam definitely is fun, and also pretty bonkers: the lyrics are about “Black Bart,” allegedly a suit of armor that the band picked up on their adventures. Somehow Bart meets a woman with a mysterious background: “Don't know where she's been/Maybe she's an acrobat/Spends her evenings dancing on a pole.” If that’s not weird enough, Bruce Dickinson argues with a high pitched character during the song, and just when you think that the song is finished, Nicko McBrain takes over and screws around for about two more minutes. It’s too weird to describe, but you can find the track on YouTube and check it out. (BI)

157. "The Apparition" - 'Fear of the Dark' (1992)
One of those songs that probably seemed like a good idea at the time, “The Apparition” brought a staccato funk vibe to the Maiden table. Something like that, anyway. The instrumental and solo sections are great, but the verses verge on a confused mess. (DL)

156. "Virus" - 'Best of the Beast' (1996)
As if ‘The X-Factor’ wasn’t grim and harrowing enough, the stand-alone single that followed it took Maiden into even more hopeless, anguished territory. Blaze Bayley does his best to keep the whole thing cracking along, but it’s essentially a monochrome dirge with no real tune. (DL)

155. "No Prayer for the Dying" - 'No Prayer for the Dying' (1990)
Easily the weakest album the band have made with Bruce on board, ‘No Prayer For The Dying’ was sold to fans as a ‘back-to-basics’ affair. The reality was that much of it sounded unimaginative and half-baked. The title track, while eminently likable, is almost certainly not on your Maiden Spotify playlist. (DL)

154. "Don't Look to the Eyes of a Stranger" - 'Virtual XI' (1998)
Needlessly drawn out and powered by some rather pedestrian riffs that surely wouldn’t have made the grade on earlier Maiden albums, “Don’t Look To The Eyes Of A Stranger” stumbles on its own complexity and has an ending that doesn’t work. (DL)

153. "Roll Over Vic Vella" - 'Fear of the Dark' (1992)
A semi-cover of Chuck Berry’s “Roll Over Beethoven” with new lyrics about the band’s roadie, Vic Vella. Chuck Berry covers, unsurprisingly, aren’t Iron Maiden’s strong suit. On the other hand, it’s better than Judas Priest’s “Johnny B. Goode.” (BI)
152. "Hooks in You" - 'No Prayer for the Dying' (1990)
Adrian Smith has written so many songs that are vastly better than “Hooks In You” that it seems a bit pointless to mention it at all. But we must, if only to celebrate the phrase “New ideas for the décor tonight!” Never thought we’d hear Bruce sing that, to be fair. (DL)

151. "Wasting Love" - 'Fear of the Dark' (1992)
A well-intended but unsatisfying ballad on ‘Fear Of The Dark,’ an album that had plenty of much more exciting moments, “Wasting Love” is both an overlong showcase for Bruce Dickinson’s voice and a good excuse to go and make some tea. (DL)

150. "The Educated Fool" - 'Virtual XI' (1998)
Stymied by its anaemic production and a palpable lack of killer material, ‘Virtual XI’ isn’t without its merits and “The Educated Fool” boasts at least one great melody to justify its inclusion. Compared to “The Clansman,” however, it’s not up to scratch. (DL)

149. "Tears of a Clown" - 'The Book of Souls (2015)
Briefly played during Maiden’s ‘Book Of Souls’ live campaign, this self-explanatory salute to troubled funny men is yet another great example of Adrian Smith’s subtly subversive contributions to the Maiden sound. But a Smokey Robinson cover would have been much funnier, if we’re honest. (DL)

148. "El Dorado" - 'The Final Frontier' (2010)
It starts with what sounds like an ending: a typically contrary Maiden move, let’s face it. “El Dorado” is not one of the band’s greatest singles, but it did win a Grammy for Best Metal Performance in 2011. So hooray for that. (DL)

147. "Out of the Shadows" - 'A Matter of Life and Death' (2006)
Brimming with moments of unashamed prog abandon, this oddity gave ‘A Matter Of Life And Death’ one of its rare moments of emotional respite, albeit mainly because Steve Harris’ bass-line is so goddamn hypnotic. (DL)

146. "Fortunes of War" - 'The X Factor' (1995)
After a relatively exciting opening triumvirate of new songs, ‘The X-Factor’ slows down for “Fortunes Of War” and loses practically all of its momentum. The lyrics are brooding and full of quiet rage, but the music beneath them is not among Maiden’s finest five minutes. (DL)

145. "The Aftermath" - 'The X Factor' (1995)
The lumbering nadir of ‘The X-Factor,’ “The Aftermath” arrives after “Fortunes Of War” and “Look For The Truth” have already drained your lifesblood. The longest, darkest and least memorable of the three, it does at least hammer home the point that Steve Harris was in a terrible mood. (DL)

144. "Mother Russia" - 'No Prayer for the Dying' (1990)
By 1990, Maiden fans were used to the band’s albums containing a grandiose epic or two. But after the glories of “Rime Of The Ancient Mariner” and “Seventh Son Of A Seventh Son,” “Mother Russia” was a slight anti-climax. You can bet Dimmu Borgir liked it, though. (DL)
143. "Childhood's End" - 'Fear of the Dark' (1992)
There are more than a few unsung gems lurking on Maiden’s less celebrated albums, and the skewed goth-prog splendour of “Childhood’s End” is firmly among them. By no means a classic, it does give ‘Fear Of The Dark’ a rare moment of forward-thinking oomph. (DL)

142. "Look for the Truth" - 'The X Factor' (1995)
The big downfall of ‘The X-Factor’ is the prolonged period of slow, miserable songs halfway through. “Look For The Truth” is particularly weak, with predictable chord changes serving only to hammer home the lack of a genuinely punchy melody. (DL)

141. "Listen With Nicko, Part XI" - 'No Prayer for the Dying' (1990)
Nicko McBrain: he’s just ahead of his time. He was a podcaster decades before podcasts (or even iPods). On 1990’s ‘The First Ten Years’ box set, he recorded a bunch of monologues as bonus tracks. They were so popular (or, at least, someone told Nicko that they were), that he recorded another one as a bonus track for ‘No Prayer For The Dying.’ Note to Nicko: the world needs to know about your comedic brilliance. Seriously, please start a podcast. (BI)

140. "Age of Innocence" - 'Dance of Death' (2003)
"Age of Innocence" finds Iron Maiden returning to the well of film and literature to vent their frustrations with the world and its rocky systems of government. The vitriol here is fairly shallow though, echoing the same tired sentiments of countless citizens of the world and while, yes, its certainly angsty with some aggressive riffing, it's not very inspired. (JD)

139. "The Man Who Would Be King" - 'The Final Frontier' (2010)
With Dave Murray’s ultra-melodic instincts all over it, the penultimate epic from ‘The Final Frontier’ veers from swooshing keys and a disembodied Bruce floating in the haze to long stretches of full-on Maiden bombast, replete with what sound like post-In Flames harmonies. That’s a joke for our older readers, by the way. (DL)

138. "For the Greater Good of God" - 'A Matter of Life and Death' (2006)
Steve Harris loves a good epic. He also loves a heart-wrenching war story. This nine-minute sprawl from ‘A Matter Of Life And Death’ combines the two to chilling and faintly morose effect. Resurrected for the current “Legacy Of The Beast” tour, it’s not a party banger. (DL)

137. "2 A.M." - 'The X Factor' (1995)
One slow, sad song too many for most fans, when they reached the end of Maiden’s most emotionally gruelling album, “2 A.M.” works best in isolation. A pretty but spiky ballad, beautifully sung by Blaze, it’s a straightforward outpouring of melancholy and angst. (DL)

136. "Mission From 'Arry" - "2 Minutes to Midnight" Single (1984)
Although Bruce Dickinson doesn’t appear on this recording, we have him to thank for it. “Mission From ‘Arry” is a recording of a pretty intense (but funny) argument between Steve Harris (a.k.a. “‘Arry”) and Nicko McBrain that Bruce was kind enough to record for the rest of us; it reached the public as a b-side to “2 Minutes To Midnight.” Apparently, during a gig, Steve Harris’ bass gear broke down, and he sent a roadie to tell McBrain to extend his drum solo while they were fixing it. The moral of the story is: don’t interrupt a drummer DURING the solo. But if you do, be sure to record the ensuing brawl. (BI)

135. "The Pilgrim" - 'A Matter of Life and Death' (2006)
Arguably the runt of the ‘A Matter Of Life And Death’ litter, “The Pilgrim” is an essential part of the album but not a song you’re likely to whistle in the shower. Fast-paced and edgy, it’s every bit as progressive as the songs around it, but lacks one truly heart-stopping moment. (DL)

134. "Dance of Death" - 'Dance of Death' (2003)
Lauded and loathed in equal measure for being a little bit too close to Spinal Tap’s “Stonehenge” routine for comfort, “Dance Of Death” wears its prog rock influences with pride and really doesn’t care if you like songs about wizards or not. So there. (DL)

133. "Déjà Vu" - 'Somewhere in Time' (1986)
One of the fastest tracks on ‘Somewhere In Time,’ “Déjà vu” is much loved by Maiden fans of a certain age, partly because it’s a rare Dave Murray/Steve Harris co-write (we nerds love this shit) and partly because the twin-lead moments are spectacular. The lyrics are a bit daft, however. (DL)

132. "Chains of Misery" - 'Fear of the Dark' (1992)
Uncomfortably close to the kind of one-dimensional metal that Maiden had always avoided, “Chains Of Misery” is unusual for the band’s decision to use gang vocals in the chorus. Worth a try, perhaps, but it doesn’t really work. This is more filler than killer. (DL)

131. "Judgement of Heaven" - 'The X Factor' (1995)
A song that just about saves ‘The X-Factor’ from falling asleep at the wheel, “Judgement Of Heaven” has a killer chorus that is sadly not quite matched by the rest of the tune. A great vocal from Blaze Bayley, however, and a wistfully quasi-spiritual lyric thrown in for free. (DL)

130. "When the Rivers Runs Deep" - 'The Book of Souls (2015)
A strong candidate for the weakest track on ‘The Book Of Souls,’ “When The River Runs Deep” just about earns its place on Maiden’s latest album thanks to a brilliantly off-the-wall Adrian Smith solo four minutes in. (DL)

129. "Sheriff of Huddersfield" - 'Somewhere in Time' (1986)
Maiden’s best B-sides have generally been spirited covers or, very occasionally, the sound of grown men dicking about. A tribute to manager Rod Smallwood that pulls no punches about the great man’s reported miserliness, it’s actually a half-decent song (with stupid lyrics). (DL)

128. "The Reincarnation of Benjamin Breeg" - 'A Matter of Life and Death' (2006)
The first song to be released from ‘A Matter Of Life And Death,’ this dark, heavy and seemingly unlikely single arrived tied to some vague promotional scheme involving a the mysterious identity of the song’s titular hero. No, we don’t know how that worked out either. (DL)

127. "Journeyman" - 'Dance of Death' (2003)
Maiden’s much-vaunted leap into acoustic territory was one of Dance Of Death’s most memorable moments. With a vague hint of Jethro Tull and a large dollop of world-weary resignation, “Journeyman” worked pretty well live, too. (DL)

126. "The Loneliness of the Long Distance Runner" - 'Somewhere in Time' (1986)
Another Steve Harris composition reportedly inspired by his voracious movie-watching habits, this rapacious epic may pale beside the better songs on ‘Somewhere In Time,’ but it’s still a riot of spiralling leads and lithe, rhythmic wallop. (DL)

125. "Lord of the Flies" - 'The X Factor' (1995)
It’s never been that hard to keep track of Steve Harris’ reading and watching habits. This song’s thematic debt to William Golding’s legendary novel was fully in keeping with the dark aesthetic of ‘The X-Factor,’ but Maiden have seldom sounded less chirpy. (DL)

124. "Holy Smoke" - 'No Prayer for the Dying' (1990)
Belatedly addressing the TV preacher phenomenon with no great subtlety, “Holy Smoke” is not one of Maiden’s best singles, but it is notable for boasting (a) a rare sighting of a curse word in a Maiden song (Bruce says ‘shit!’) and (b) one of the best/worst videos ever made. (DL)

123. "Satellite 15... The Final Frontier" - 'The Final Frontier' (2010)
Opinion was split on the values of “Satellite 15,” a noisy futuristic intro with jarring programmed drums, and it still sounds like what it was (an Adrian Smith demo), but “The Final Frontier” is a nuts-out, sky-punching Maiden anthem, so it’s not all bad news. (DL)

122. "Justice of the Peace" - 'The X Factor' (1995)
A Murray/Harris co-write confined to the b-side on the second of two CD single versions of “Man On The Edge” (it was a confusing time to be alive, folks), this fair-to-middling rabble-rouser is arguably more exciting than a good third of ‘The X-Factor.’ Just saying. (DL)

121. "Fates Warning" - 'No Prayer for the Dying' (1990)
Literally no one’s favourite Maiden song, “Fates Warning” was probably not named after the iconic progressive metal band, not least because it lacks a single interesting musical idea. A major low point in the first Bruce era, you just can’t whistle it in the shower, can you? (DL)

120. "The Mercenary" - 'Brave New World' (2000)
On an album full of joyful demonstrations of their renewed prowess, Iron Maiden could probably have left “The Mercenary” off ‘Brave New World,’ simply because it’s the kind of song you suspect they can write in their collective sleep. (DL)

119. "The Unbeliever" - 'The X Factor' (1995)
Tucked at the back-end of somewhat overlong ‘The X-Factor,’ “The Unbeliever” may be a song that many fans never quite got round to listening to. But they should: it’s a scowling, nihilistic affair with some neat proggy touches. (DL)

118. "Death or Glory" - 'The Book of Souls (2015)
Custom built for live performance, “Death Or Glory” saw Adrian Smith reasserting himself as master of brevity and bombast. Bruce Dickinson’s instruction to “climb like a monkey” never made a great deal of sense, but this is heavy metal, not chemistry. (DL)

117. "Afraid to Shoot Strangers" - 'Fear of the Dark' (1992)
Perhaps against the odds, this rambling epic has made occasional visits to Maiden’s set lists over the last 25 years. It’s a tense and turbulent war story, the horrors of the Gulf War brought eloquently to life by Steve Harris. (DL)

116. "Invaders" - 'The Number of the Beast' (1982)
Few would argue that “Invaders” is a classic like “Run To The Hills” or “The Number Of The Beast,” but it’s hard to imagine Maiden’s triumphant 1982 breakthrough album without this mad-eyed, riff-driven ambush as its starting point.

115. "New Frontier" - 'Dance of Death' (2003)
Three decades after joining Iron Maiden, Nicko McBrain earned his first writing credit on the ‘Frankenstein’-inspired “New Frontier.” The track’s kicking energy and single-leaning approach is the last bit of joy to be found as darkness looms large over the ensuing four tracks that close out the ‘Dance of Death’ record. Despite its charm, it doesn’t have as much staying power on the dynamic recording, but it’s always a fun one when it pops up either on shuffle or when cruising through ‘Dance of Death.’ (JD)

114. "Man on the Edge" - 'The X Factor' (1995)
The first Blaze Bayley-fronted Maiden song to be released, “Man On The Edge” came as a great relief to many diehards. Spiky and aggressive, its re-imagining of Michael Douglas’ peerless film ‘Falling Down’ gave ‘The X-Factor’ some much needed energy. (DL)

113. "From Here to Eternity" - 'Fear of the Dark' (1992)
A disappointingly prosaic rock and roller from the intermittently great ‘Fear Of The Dark,’ this mostly unloved single always seemed a bit unimaginative, especially since only four years had passed since ‘Seventh Son Of A Seventh Son.’ (DL)

112. "These Colours Don't Run" - 'A Matter of Life and Death' (2006)
Sharon Osbourne may deserve a songwriting credit on “These Colours Don’t Run,” since the track wouldn’t exist without her egging of Iron Maiden at Ozzfest 2005. Named after the sentiment Bruce Dickinson aired onstage, “These Colours Don’t Run” is another solid wartime effort from Maiden worthy of its seven minute run time. (GH)

111. "The Edge of Darkness" - 'The X Factor' (1995)
One of several moody, predominantly slow-paced epics that Steve Harris wrote to showcase Blaze Bayley’s powerful, gritty voice, this was a highlight of the underrated second half of ‘The X-Factor,’ albeit not one you’d necessarily play at a party. (DL)

110. "Wildest Dreams" - 'Dance of Death' (2003)
Maiden went through a period where every new album seemed to be preceded by a short, snappy three-to-four-minute sing-along single. “Wildest Dreams” isn’t one of the band’s best but it served its purpose perfectly well as a set opener on the ‘Dance Of Death’ tour. (DL)

109. "Invasion" - 'The Soundhouse Tapes' (1979)
Blustery and naïve it may be, but “Invasion” is an exciting snapshot of early Maiden, when harnessing the energy of punk at least seemed to be part of the band’s modus operandi. Revered for its presence on ‘The Soundhouse Tapes’ alone, it’s basically impossible to dislike. (DL)

108. "The Fallen Angel" - 'Brave New World' (2000)
There’s nothing wrong with ‘The Fallen Angel.” It’s a sturdy Maiden anthem with some great riffs and a huge chorus. It’s just nowhere near as life-affirming as “The Wicker Man” or other classics from ‘Brave New World.’ So there’s that. (DL)

107. "The Assassin" - 'No Prayer for the Dying' (1990)
One of the most adventurous and distinctive songs on ‘No Prayer For The Dying,’ “The Assassin” was a little out of place on an otherwise disappointingly straightforward album. Worth a second glance, it offers faint clues to Maiden’s eventual rebirth as prog metal overlords. (DL)

106. "Gates of Tomorrow" - 'Dance of Death' (2003)
A decent showcase for the occasional Harris/Dickinson/Gers team-up, “Gates Of Tomorrow” is a no-nonsense stormer that was perhaps too firmly rooted in trad Maiden territory to stand out amid the gently eclectic menu offered up by ‘Dance Of Death.’ (DL)

105. "The Man of Sorrows" - 'The Book of Souls (2015)
All glory to Mr. Dave Murray on this one. The guitarist’s legato technique is flawless and unparalleled as notes elegantly blossom from his smooth, overtly-melodic delivery. He sets the mood on “The Man of Sorrows” (not to be confused with Bruce’s ‘Accident of Birth’ solo track, “Man of Sorrows”), with his fluttering lead work and the song quickly takes on a theme of hope enveloped in uncertainty with striding rhythms, bombastic synths and melancholic melodies. (JD)

104. "Face in the Sand" - 'Dance of Death' (2003)
‘Dance Of Death’ was a strange combination of classic Maidenisms and unexpected left-turns. “Face In The Sand” takes an age to get going, but its Floyd-esque slow-build suits the darker intent of mature Maiden perfectly. Extra points for Nicko’s thudding double-kicks. (DL)

103. "The Fugitive" - 'Fear of the Dark' (1992)
A song that promises much but delivers slightly less, “The Fugitive” is a classic Steve Harris anthem: straight-ahead riffs and linear lyrics, with a bonus detour into moderately proggy territory for the song’s actually rather brilliant instrumental mid-section. (DL)

102. "When Two Worlds Collide" - 'Virtual XI' (1998)
Contrary to received wisdom, there are lots of cool moments on ‘Virtual XI’ and the spooky intro to “When Two Worlds Collide” is one of them. Unfortunately, the song then lumbers when it should soar, its relatively lively chorus and neat harmonies somehow lacking that essential Maiden spark. (DL)

101. "Different World" - 'A Matter of Life and Death' (2006)
Unashamedly saluting the melodic power of Thin Lizzy, the opening track on ‘A Matter Of Life And Death’ is a straightforwardly incisive exercise in hard rock songwriting and strong evidence that Bruce Dickinson should sing in a lower register more often. (DL)

100. "Mother of Mercy" - 'The Final Frontier' (2010)
Reaffirming Bruce Dickinson’s ability to hit notes that only dogs can hear, “Mother Of Mercy” is not an obvious highlight of ‘The Final Frontier,’ but it boasts a performance from Bruce that will cheerfully take the paint from your walls. The closing riff is enjoyably gnarly, too. (DL)

99. "Blood on the World's Hands" - 'The X Factor' (1995)
‘The X-Factor’ is an album of shadowy terrors and slow-motion menace, but it also has its fair share of quirky moments. “Blood On The World’s Hands” starts with one of Steve Harris’ trademark, rough-hewn bass solos and then transforms into a grinding, epic anti-ballad. (DL)

98. "The Nomad" - 'Brave New World' (2000)
One of several Maiden songs to transport us all to a vast, bleak and sun-ravaged desert, “The Nomad” gave ‘Brave New World’ its most sumptuously epic moment. A tribute to “The rider of the desert sands,” its opulent sprawl deftly matches the subject matter, scorched grain for grain. (DL)Embed Wasting Love - 2015 Remaster Fear of the Dark (2015 Remaster) Iron Maiden hard-rock