80 ContributorsShit Hits The Fan Lyrics[Intro: Dr. Dre]
Yeah
Yo, let's bring it

[Chorus: Eminem]
What you gonna do when shit hits the fan?
Are you gonna stand and fight like a man?
Will you be as hard as you say you are?
Or you gonna run and go get your bodyguard?
I said, what you gonna do when shit hits the fan?
Are you gonna stand and fight like a man?
And show us you're as hard as you say you are?
Or you gonna run and go get your bodyguard?

[Verse 1: Dr. Dre]
Niggas is so gangsta, niggas is thugs
Niggas'll spend they whole life peddling drugs
Slangin' dope in hopes of one day being able
To own their own label and give the game up
Some niggas came up, some just didn't
That's just the way it is; if it ain't meant it, it just isn't
Some niggas'll get money and pay niggas to back 'em so they can act up, feel comfortable and rap tough
And that's ass-backwards
'Cause them niggas just gon' keep comin' back and that's when extortion happens and you struggle to get free
I know how this shit be
You'd give anything to live legitimately
But you gon' find if you do get in this industry
It's best to do business with me than against me
Niggas get behind mics and ain't even emcees
Niggas get on MTV just to diss me
This shit don't even piss me off
I'm laughing all the way to the bank
Watching the satellite from a Bentley
And you niggas ain't even got a car
You're so far under my radar
I don't even know who the fuck you are
To tell you to suck my dick while I'm pissin'
I don't even listen to your shit to know who the fuck I'm dissin'
And media just feeds into these feuds
Tryna add fuel to the fire, this lil' nigga Ja Rule
Talking bout he's gon' slap me? Nigga, please!
You gotta jump and swing up to hit me in the knees
I laugh at these magazines when they interview him
All they doing is making fake threats to us through them
And, pussy, you not Pac; I knew him
Pac was a real nigga, you just a fucking insult to him
It's too bad we had to fall out before he passed
'Cause if he could see this shit now, he'd be whoopin' your ass
You're talkin' to a pioneer who engineered this shit for 19 years
Who you got in ya ear? (Pshhhhh!)
I ain't even gotta say it, the fans know
Quit tryna be tough, nigga, you look like an asshole
See Obie Trice LiveGet tickets as low as $61You might also like[Chorus: Eminem]
What you gonna do when shit hits the fan?
Are you gonna stand and fight like a man?
Will you be as hard as you say you are?
Or you gonna run and go get your bodyguard?
I said, what you gonna do when shit hits the fan?
Are you gonna stand and fight like a man?
And show us you're as hard as you say you are?
Or you gonna run and go get your bodyguard?

[Verse 2: Obie Trice]
They say, "Why don't we increase the peace?"
The only piece increased is that which deletes your peeps
'Cause niggas run mouths but they don't run streets
Till that fo'-five will cease your speech
Yeah, it's a shame how the beef'll creep
Could've reached ya peak, now you're left with a horrible leak
I'm tryin' to be as bleak with my speech as possible
Just in case a nigga tryin' to throw me an obstacle
Nigga, I'm not boxin' you, I'm hospitable
I put you in a hospital, that's how I get at you
Let the Doc op- on you, he don't rid you?
You back on the streets, I send another hit at you
This is not a hypocritical issue
I will critical condition your tissue, give a fuck
If all ten of them with you, I throw an extra ten of them missiles
Turn gangstas into gentlemen, vicko
And ever since Eminem dissed you
I swear I see the woman and bitch in you
All this bickerin' back and forth over who signs who
Curtis pulled your skirt up, nigga, you got murdered
Now take it like a man and shake it off, damn!
And quit tellin' all these magazines your plans
How you gon' slap up my mans? You're fict-ious
Nigga, we'll send Stan to come murder your bitches
[Chorus: Eminem]
What you gonna do when shit hits the fan?
Are you gonna stand and fight like a man?
Will you be as hard as you say you are?
Or you gonna run and go get your bodyguard?
I said, what you gonna do when shit hits the fan?
Are you gonna stand and fight like a man?
And show us you're as hard as you say you are?
Or you gonna run and go get your bodyguard?

[Outro: Obie Trice]
Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha
Yeah
Go hide behind all the gangstas you want, nigga
Matter of fact
Go get every gangsta from every hood
In the United States of America to back you, nigga
Ain't nobody ridin' wit you
You can't see that?
You fell off, nigga
Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha
Damn
Shady slash Aftermath, mothafucker
2003 to infinity!
Yeah!13Embed Shit Hits The Fan Cheers Obie Trice;Dr. Dre hardcore