5 ContributorsBeat Breakdowns Vol 2 Lyrics 5. SZA ft. Chance The Rapper – "Childs Play" Produced by Dae One & XXYYXXThe one sample on the record is taken from an XXYYXX produced track, "About You." Dae One took the track and used it for the backbone of this new composition. He then added an array of hi hats, 808s & snares to bring the new beat together. – DC26 4. 50 Cent – "In Da Club" Produced by Dr Dre & MIke ElizondoThe production features blaring horns, funky organs, guitar riffs and sparse hand claps. The repeating string chords, knocking drums and plucked guitar phrases make for a track that contains just enough variations to keep your ears glued to the speaker while avoiding any confusion. For the second verse they added additional a string and brass based orchestra. Also, apparently D12 passed on the beatThis was the first of seven tracks which he recorded with Dr. Dre in five days. 50 explained how the recording process went:Dre, he'll play dope beats ... [He'll say], 'These are the hits, 50. So pick one of these and make a couple of singles or something.' The very first time he heard [me rap on] 'In Da Club' he said, 'Yo, I didn't think you was going to go there with it, but, you know, it works.' He was probably thinking of going in a different direction with that song. Then he expanded it into a hit record. –0nelove 3. Phantogram – "Fall In Love"This blaring, heavily synthesized sensation contains samples from a highly unlikely source - Barbara Mason's "Yes, I'm Ready." The main sampled portion can be heard 27 seconds in, and the "Fall" vocal that is sampled throughout the song can be heard 44 seconds in. – streetlights 2. Dr Dre ft Akon & Snoop Dogg – "Kush" Produced by Danny Keyz & DJ Khalil 1. Nas – "I'm a Villain" from Illmatic XX. Produced by Jae SupremeIn the words of producer Jae Supreme:i met nas through my cousin syl drama. nas was his homeboy. they were younger than me, so i didn’t run with their crew. being my blood cousin, syl drama was always at my studio (prime cuts ny) recording songs. he would let nas and his other people here the joints, and that’s what prompted nas to ask syl if he could come to the studio with him. syl told me he was ill, so i said bring him through. nas loved alota of the james brown samples i would use, so i took one of the loops from a song i did for myself called “swinga”, and made a different beat with it for him. he went in the booth and spit that rhyme in one take. i was impressed. i gave him a copy of it, and that was it. i really didn’t think about that song too much until i heard him on live at the bbq. i was like oh ****, that’s that kid nas my cousin brought to the studio. he was working with large pro by that time, and i guess that’s where the confusion came in with everyone thinking large pro did the “villain” track. i honestly didn’t think the song would get that much love, until i saw it circulating around the internet. i’m glad i got to do a few joints with nas before he really blew up
Here’s a song my cousin SYL DRAMA did with Nas & Cormega = 40TH SIDE OF THINGS6Embed Kush - Main Kush Dr. Dre;Snoop Dogg;Akon funk