149 ContributorsGOTTI Lyrics[Intro]
Got me a new Rollie
(You can't even afford that)
Gotti Gotti, ultra (Take off your headphones)
Gotti Gotti, uh
Gotti Gotti (Hahahaha)

[Chorus]
'Kay, my block bang (Gang), .30 bang (Gang)
Scum Gang, big choppa, big thang, let your nuts hang
Who they? (Gang), don't say (Gang, gang)
BBA change your mood, ayy, any day
Gotti Gotti, cookin' up, speed it up
Double cup, Xanny cup, booted up
Mollied up, molly up, break it up
Cop it, then I serve it up, give it up
Gotti Gotti

[Verse 1]
Fuck with my day ones
Yeah, you know I flooded the chain once
Got the money, and I split it with day ones
She ain't fuck me back when I was lame, nah
Yeah, you know I do my dance (Do it)
In the club (Hey), throwin' dough
Rack it up (Rack it), shake it up
Watch me do it, how I bust it up (Ooh), I mix it up
Then I hit her with the blicky, uh
So drip it, drip it, drip it, drip it
You ain't got no money, you can keep her (Pew, pew, pew)
Bitch, I got my Nina, I'ma squeeze her
If you really wanna meet her, she a greeter
It was really nice to meet ya, I don't need ya (I don't need her)
I pray to God that my niggas gon' eat (I pray to god)
I pray to God that my family gon' see (I pray to god)
Prayin' that the Lord take a chance with me
Wouldn't come when I was up, I was on the wrong things (Mom, please)
I ain't silly, ain't no dumb nigga, are you dumb, nigga?
Are you stayin' with the pump, nigga? Fuck is up, nigga?
Is you mad? You's a fuck nigga, I don't trust niggas
Scum Gang, chew 'em up, nigga, we don't fuck with ya
You might also like[Chorus]
Okay, my block bang (Gang), 30 bang (Gang)
Scum Gang, big choppa, big thang, let your nuts hang
Who they? (Gang), don't say (Gang, gang)
BBA change your mood, ayy, any day
Gotti Gotti, cookin' up, speed it up
Double cup, Xanny cup, booted up
Mollied up, molly up, break it up
Cop it, then I serve it up, give it up
Gotti Gotti

[Refrain]
The Gotti Gotti
Who, who really with the money, money?
Who, who really with the Gotti Gotti?
Who, who really with the money, money? Who?

[Verse 2]
Do my dance, hit my dance
Fifty bands, hunnid bands, all my dance
Mollied up, molly up, give it up
Cop it, then I serve it up, give it up

[Refrain]
Really with the Gotti, Gotti
Who, who really with the Gotti, Gotti?
Who, who really with the?62Embed