166 ContributorsGangsta Gangsta Lyrics[Skit: Krazy D, Eazy-E, Dr. Dre, MC Ren]
*Sirens*
Ah, shit! Man, them pinche black gangstas are at it again
I wonder who they fucked up today?
*Screeching Tires*
You, muthafucka!
*Machine Gun Fire*
Got him
Pull over to the side right now
Man, fuck them motherfuckers!

[Intro: Eazy-E & Sample]
Yo, Dre! Gimme a funky-ass bassline!
Right here!
[Verse 1: Ice Cube]
Here's a little somethin' 'bout a nigga like me
Never should've been let out the penitentiary
Ice Cube would like to say
That I'm a crazy motherfucker from around the way
Since I was a youth, I smoked weed out
Now I'm the motherfucker that you read about
Takin' a life or two, that's what the hell I do
You don't like how I'm livin'? Well, fuck you!
This is a gang, and I'm in it
My man Dre'll fuck you up in a minute
With a right-left, right left ya toothless
And then you say "Goddamn, they ruthless!"
Everywhere we go they say, "Damn!"
N.W.A's fuckin' up the program
And then you realize we don't care
We don't just say no, we're too busy sayin', "Yeah!"
About drinkin' straight out the eight bottle
Do I look like a motherfuckin' role model?
To a kid lookin' up to me
Life ain't nothin' but bitches and money
You might also like[Pre-Chorus: Ice Cube]
'Cause I'm the type of nigga that's built to last
If you fuck with me, I'll put my foot in your ass
See, I don't give a fuck, 'cause I keep bellin'
Yo! What the fuck are they yellin'?

[Chorus: MC Ren & Sample]
Gangsta! Gangsta! That's what they yellin'
It's not about a salary, it's all about reality
Gangsta! Gangsta!
Hopin' you sophisticated motherfuckers hear what I have to say

[Verse 2: Ice Cube]
When me and my posse stepped in the house
All the punk-ass niggas start breakin' out
'Cause you know, they know what's up
So we started lookin' for the bitches with the big butts
Like her, but she keep cryin'
"I got a boyfriend"; bitch, stop lyin'!
Dumb-ass hooker ain't nothin' but a dyke
Suddenly, I see some niggas that I don't like
Walked over to 'em, and said, "What's up?"
The first nigga that I saw, hit him in the jaw
Ren started stompin' him, and so did E
By that time, got rushed by security
Out the door, but we don't quit
Ren said "Let's start some shit!"
I got a shotgun, and here's the plot:
Takin' niggas out with a flurry of buck shots
Boom! Boom! Boom! Yeah, I was gunnin'
And then you look, all you see is niggas runnin'
And fallin' and yellin' and pushin' and screamin' and cussin'
I stepped back and I kept bustin'
And then I realized it's time for me to go
So I stopped, jumped in the vehicle
It's like this, because of that who-ride
N.W.A is wanted for a homicide
[Pre-Chorus: Ice Cube]
'Cause I'm the type of nigga that's built to last
Fuck with me, I'll put my foot in your ass
See, I don't give a fuck, 'cause I keep bellin'
Yo, what the fuck are they yellin'?

[Chorus: MC Ren & Sample]
Gangsta! Gangsta! That's what they yellin'
It's not about a salary, it's all about reality
Gangsta! Gangsta!
He'll tell you exactly how he feel
And don't hold a fuckin' thing back

[Verse 3: Ice Cube]
Homies all standin' around, just hangin'
Some dope-dealin', some gang-bangin'
We decide to roll and we deep
See a nigga on Dayton's and we creep
Real slow, and before you know
I had my shotgun pointed in the window
He got scared and hit the gas
Right then I knew I had to smoke his ass
He kept rollin', I jumped in the bucket
We couldn't catch him, so I said fuck it
Then we headed right back to the fort
Sweatin' all the bitches in the biker shorts
We didn't get no play from the ladies
With six niggas in a car; are you crazy?
She was scared, and it was showin'
We all said, "Fuck you, bitch!" and kept goin'
To the hood, and we was fin' to
Find somethin' else to get into
Like some pussy, or in fact
A bum rush, but we call it rat pack
On a nigga for nothin' at all
Ice Cube'll go stupid when I'm full of eight ball
I might stumble, but still won't lose
Now I'm dressed in the county blues
[Pre-Chorus: Ice Cube]
'Cause I'm the type of nigga that's built to last
If you fuck with me, I'll put my foot in your ass
I don't give a fuck, 'cause I keep bellin'
Yo! What the fuck are they yellin'?

[Interlude: Dr. Dre, MC Ren & The Jimmy Castor Bunch]
Wait a minute, wait a minute, cut this shit!
Man, what'cha gon' do now?
(What we're gonna do right here is go back)
How far you goin' back? (Way back)
"As we go a lil' somethin' like this" — hit it!

[Pre-Verse: Ice Cube]
Here's a little gangsta, short in size
A t-shirt and Levi's is his only disguise
Built like a tank, yet hard to hit
Ice Cube and Eazy-E cold runnin' shit!

[Verse 4: Eazy-E & Mc Ren]
Well, I'm Eazy-E, the one they're talkin' about
Nigga tried to roll the dice and just crapped out
Police tried to roll, so it's time to go
I creeped away real slow and jumped in the six-fo'
With the (diamond in the back, sun-roof top)
Diggin' the scene with the gangsta lean
'Cause I'm the E, I don't slang or bang
I just smoke motherfuckers like it ain't no thang!
And all you bitches, you know I'm talkin' to you
"We wanna fuck you, Eazy!" I wanna fuck you too!
Because, you see, I don't really take no shit
So let me tell ya motherfuckers who you fuckin' with

[Pre-Chorus: Eazy-E]
'Cause I'm the type of nigga that's built to last
If you fuck with me, I'll put a foot in your ass
I don't give a fuck, 'cause I keep bellin'
Yo! What the fuck are they yellin'?

[Chorus: MC Ren & Sample]
Gangsta! Gangsta! That's what they yellin'
It's not about a salary, it's all about reality
Gangsta! Gangsta
He'll fuck up you and yours
And anything that gets in his way
Gangsta! Gangsta! That's what they yellin'
It's not about a salary, it's all about reality
Gangsta! Gangsta
He'll just call you a low-life muthafucka
And talk about yo' funky ways50Embed Gangsta Gangsta Straight Outta Compton N.W.A. hardcore