157 ContributorsPut It On Lyrics[Intro: Kid Capri]
Hey, hey, hey
Come on, come on, come on, come on
Come on, come on, come on, come on

[Verse 1: Big L]
Ayo, you better flee hops, or get your head flown three blocks
L keep rappers' hearts pumpin' like Reeboks
And every year I gain clout and my name sprouts
Some brothers'd still be virgins if crack never came out
I got the wild style, always been a foul child
My guns go "BOOM BOOM!" and yo' guns go "pow pow"
I'm known to have a hottie open, I keep the shotty smokin'
Front, and get half the bones in your body broken
And when it comes to gettin' nookie I'm not a rookie
I got girls that make that chick Toni Braxton look like Whoopi
I run with sturdy cliques, I'm never hittin' dirty chicks
Got thirty-five bodies, buddy, don't make it thirty-six
Step to this, you're good as gone
Word is born, I leave mics torn when I put it on

[Chorus: Kid Capri]
So put it on, Big L, put it on!
Come on, put it onnn, and onnn, and on!
Come on, put it on, Big L, put it on!
Come on, put it on, represent, put it on, come on!
You might also like[Verse 2: Big L]
Nobody can take nothin' from Big L but a loss, chief
The last punk who fronted got a mouth full of false teeth
I'm known to gas a hottie and blast a shotty
Got more cash than Gotti, (You don't know?) You better ask somebody
Big L is a crazy brother, and I'm a lady lover
A smooth kid that'll run up in your baby mother
I push a slick Benz, I'm known to hit skins
And get ends and commit sins with sick friends
'Cause I'm a money getter, also a honey hitter
You think you nice as me? Haha, you's a funny nigga
I flows, so one of my shows wouldn't be clever to miss
I'm leavin' competitors pissed, to tell you the truth, it gets no better than this
I'm catchin' wreck to the break of dawn
In this song, yo, it's a must that I put it on

[Chorus: Kid Capri]
Yeah, so put it on, Big L, put it on!
C'mon, put it on, big fella, put it on and on!
Put it on, Big L!
Put it on, represent!
Put it on, c'mon, put it on!

[Bridge: Patois Chatta]
Some boys see me gun nozzle and take a we fi joke
Boy, you gwan dead before you see me gun smoke
See me gun nozzle and take me fi joke
You gwan dead from a me you provoke
[Verse 3: Big L]
I drink Moët, not Beck's beer, I stay dressed in slick gear
Peace to my homies in the gangsta lean, I'll see you when I get there
And it's a fact I keep a gat in my arm reach
I charm freaks and bomb geeks from here to Palm Beach
I'm puttin' rappers in the wheelchair, Big L is the villain you still fear
'Cause I be hangin' in Harlem and shit is for real here
If you battle L, you picked the wrong head
I smash mics like cornbread, you can't kill me, I was born dead
And I'm known to pull steel trigs and kill pigs
I run with ill kids and real nigs who peel wigs
My raps is steady slammin', I keep a heavy cannon
It's a new sheriff in town and it ain't Reggie Hammond
Peace to my peoples, the Children of the Corn
'Cause we put it on, adiós, ghost, I'm gone

[Chorus: Kid Capri]
So put it on, Big L, put it on!
C'mon, put it on, big fella put it on and on!
Big L, you gotta put it on and on!
Put it on, Big L put it on and on!
Word up, knahmsayin?
My man Big L, runnin' things for the nine-four
And nine-oh-s, you know what I mean?
It's the Kid Capri, in full flair
And we gon' put it on a little somethin' like this
Big L, c'mon!
[Outro: Big L & (Kid Capri)]
Lord Finesse (He be puttin' it on)
My man Buckwild (He be puttin' it on and on)
My man Fat Joe (He be puttin' it on)
Showbiz and A.G. (Yeah, they be puttin' it on and on)
I can’t forget Diamond D (He be puttin' it on)
The whole D.I.T.C. (Yeah, they be puttin' it on and on)
And of course Kid Capri (Yeah, I be puttin' it on)
The whole N.Y.C. (Yeah, we be puttin' it on and on)
And I’m out125Embed