1 ContributorMad Sweeny Vs. Jem Casey - excerpt from At Swim-Two-Birds LyricsSynopsis, being a summary of what has gone before, FOR THE
BENEFIT OF NEW READERS: Dermot Trellis, an eccentric author,
conceives the project of writing a salutary book on the consequences
which follow wrong-doing and creates for the purpose

The Pooka Fergus MacPhellimey, a species of human Irish
devil endowed with magical powers. He then creates

John Furriskey, a depraved character, whose task is to attack
women and behave at all times in an indecent manner. By magic he
is instructed by Trellis to go one night to Donnybrook where he
will by arrangement meet and betray

Peggy, a domestic servant. He meets her and is much surprised
when she confides in him that Trellis has fallen asleep and that
her virtue has already been assailed by an elderly man subsequently
to be identified as

Finn MacCool, a legendary character hired by Trellis on account
of the former's venerable appearance and experience, to act
as the girl's father and chastise her for her transgressions against
the moral law; and that her virtue has also been assailed by

Paul Shanahan, another man hired by Trellis for performing
various small and unimportant parts in the story, also for running
messages.
Peggy and Furriskey then have a long discussion
on the roadside in which she explains to him that Trellis's powers
are suspended when he falls asleep and that Finn and Shanahan
were taking advantage of that fact when they came to see her because
they would not dare to defy him when he is awake. Furriskey
then inquires whether she yielded to them and she replies that indeed
she did not. Furriskey then praises her and they discover after
a short time that they have fallen in love with each other at first
sight. They arrange to lead virtuous lives, to simulate the immoral
actions, thoughts and words which Trellis demands of them on
pain of the severest penalties. They also arrange that the first of
them who shall be free shall wait for the other with a view to marriage
at the earliest opportunity. Meanwhile Trellis, in order to
show how an evil man can debase the highest and the lowest in
the same story, creates a very beautiful and refined girl called Sheila Lamont, whose brother,

Antony Lamont he has already hired so that there will be somebody
to demand satisfaction off John Furriskey for betraying her —
all this being provided for in the plot. Trellis creates Miss Lamont
in his own bedroom and he is so blinded by her beauty (which is
naturally the type of beauty nearest to his heart ) , that he so far forgets
himself as to assault her himself. Furriskey in the meantime returns
to the Red Swan Hotel where Trellis lives and compels
all those working for him to live also. He (Furriskey) is determined
to pretend that he faithfully carried out the terrible mission he was
sent on. Now read on.

Further extract from Manuscript. Oratio recta: With a key in
his soft nervous hand, he opened the hall door and removed his
shoes with two swift spells of crouching on the one leg. He crept up
the stairs with the noiseless cat-tread of his good-quality woollen
socks. The door of Trellis was dark and sleeping as he passed up the
stairs to his room. There was a crack of light at Shanahan's door and
he placed his shoes quietly on the floor and turned the handle.

The hard Furriskey, said Shanahan.

Here was Shanahan stretched at the fire, with Lamont on his left
and the old greybeard seated beyond dimly on the bed with his
stick between his knees and his old eyes staring far into the red fire
like a man whose thought was in a distant part of the old world
or maybe in another world altogether.

By God you weren't long, said Lamont.

Shut the door, said Shanahan, but see you're in the room before
you do so. Shut the door and treat yourself to a chair, Mr. F. You're
quick off the mark all right. Move up there, Mr. L.

It's not what you call a full-time occupation, said Furriskey in a
weary way. It's not what you call a life sentence.
It is not, said Lamont. You're right there.

Now don't worry, said Shanahan in a pitying manner, there's
plenty more coming. We'll keep you occupied now, don't you worry,
won't we, Mr. Lamont?

We'll see that he gets his bellyful, said Lamont.

You're decent fellows the pair of ye, said Furriskey.

He sat on a stool and extended his fan to the fire, the fan of his
ten fingers.

You can get too much of them the same women, he said.

Is that a fact, said Shanahan in unbelief. Well I never heard that
said before. Come here, Mr. Furriskey, did you. . . .

O it was all right, I'll tell you sometime, said Furriskey.

Didn't I tell you it was all right? Didn't I?

You did, said Furriskey.

He took a sole cigarette from a small box.

I'll tell you the whole story sometime but not now, he said. He
nodded towards the bed.

Is your man asleep or what?

Maybe he is, said Shanahan, but by God it didn't sound like it
five minutes ago. Mr. Storybook was wide awake.

He was wide awake, said Lamont.

Five minutes ago he was giving out a yarn the length of my arm,
said Shanahan. Right enough he is a terrible man for talk. Aren't
you now? He'd talk the lot of us into the one grave if you gave him
his head, don't ask me how I know, look at my grey hairs. Isn't that
a fact, Mr. Lamont?

For a man of his years, said Lamont slowly and authoritatively, he
can do the talking. By God he can do the talking. He has seen more
of the world than you or me, of course, that's the secret of it.

That's true, said Furriskey, a happy fire-glow running about his
body. He carefully directed the smoke of his cigarette towards the
flames and up the chimney. Yes, he's an old man, of course.

His stories are not the worst though. I'll say that, said Lamont,
there's always a head and a tail on his yarns, a beginning and an
end, give him his due.

O I don't know, said Furriskey.

he can talk, he can talk, I agree with you there, said Shanahan,
credit where credit is due. But you'd want what you'd call a grain of
solo with more than one of them if I know anything.

A pinch of salt? said Lamont.
A grain of salo, Mr. L.

1 don't doubt it, said Furriskey.

Relate, said hidden Conan, the tale of the Feasting of Dun na
nGedh.

Finn in his mind was nestling with his people.

I mean to say, said Lamont, whether a yarn is tall or small I
like to hear it well told. I like to meet a man that can take in hand
to tell a story and not make a balls of it while he's at it. I like to know
where I am, do you know. Everything has a beginning and an end.
It is true, said Finn, that I will not.

that's right too, said Shanahan.


Relate then, said Conan, the account of the madness of King
Sweeny and he on a madman's flight through the length of Erin.

That's a grand fire, said Furriskey, and if a man has that, he can't
want a lot more. A fire, a bed, and a roof over his head, that's all.
With a bite to eat, of course.

It's all very fine for you to talk, now, said Lamont, you had something
for your tea to-night that the rest of us hadn't, eh, Mr. Shanahan.
Know what I mean?

Keep the fun clean, said Shanahan.

I beg, Mr. Chairman, said Furriskey, to be associated with them
sentiments. What's clean, keep it clean.

There was a concerted snigger, harmonious, scored for three
voices.

I will relate, said Finn.

We're off again, said Furriskey.

The first matter that I will occupy with honey-words and melodious
recital, said Finn, is the reason and the first cause for Sweeny's
frenzy.

Draw in your chairs, boys, said Shanahan, we're right for the
night. We're away on a hack.

Pray proceed, Sir, said Lamont.


Now Sweeny was King of Dal Araidhe and a man that was easily
moved to the tides of anger. I Near his house was the cave of a saint
called Ronan — a shield against evil was this gentle generous
friendly active man, who was out in the matin-hours taping out the
wall-steads of a new sun-bright church and ringing his bell in the
morning.

Good for telling, said Conan.

Now when Sweeny heard the clack of the clergyman's bell, his
brain and his spleen and his gut were exercised by turn and together
with the fever of a flaming anger. He made a great run out
of the house without a cloth-stitch to the sheltering of his naked
nudity, for he had run out of his cloak when his wife Eorann held it
for restraint and deterrence, and he did not rest till he had snatched
the beauteous light-lined psalter from the cleric and put it in the
lake, at the bottom; after that he took the hard grip of the cleric's
hand and ran with a wind-swift stride to the lake without a halting
or a letting go of the hand because he had a mind to place the cleric
by the side of his psalter in the lake, on the bottom, to speak precisely.
But, evil destiny, he was deterred by the big storm-voiced
hoarse shout, the shout of a scullion calling him to the profession
of arms at the battle of Magh Rath. Sweeny then left the cleric sad
and sorrowful over the godless battery of the king and lamenting
his psalter. This, however, an otter from the murk of the lake returned
to him unharmed, its lines and its letters unblemished. He
then returned with joyous piety to his devotions and put a malediction
on Sweeny by the uttering of a lay of eleven melodious
stanzas.

Thereafter he went himself with his acolytes to the plain of
Magh Rath for the weaving of concord and peace between the
hosts and was himself taken as a holy pledge, the person of the
cleric, that fighting should cease at sun-down and that no man
should be slain until fighting would be again permitted, the person
of the cleric a holy hostage and exchange between the hosts. But,
evil destiny, Sweeny was used to violating the guarantee by the
slaughter of a man every morning before the hour when fighting
was permitted. On the morning of a certain day, Ronan and his
eight psalmists were walking in the field and sprinkling holy water
on the hosts against the incidence of hurt or evil when they sprinkled
the head of Sweeny with the rest. Sweeny in anger took a cast and
reddened his spear in the white side of a psalmist and broke Ronan's
bell whereupon the cleric uttered this melodious lay:

My curse on Sweeny!

His guilt against me is immense,

he pierced with his long swift javelin

my holy bell.

The holy bell that thou hast outraged

will banish thee to branches,

it will put thee on a par with fowls —

the saint-bell of saints with sainty-saints.

Just as it went prestissimo

the spear-shaft skyward,

you too, Sweeny, go madly mad-gone

skyward.

Eorann of Conn tried to hold him

by a hold of his smock

and though I bless her therefore,

my curse on Sweeny.

Thereafter when the hosts clashed and bellowed like stag-herds
and gave three audible world-wide shouts till Sweeny heard them
and their hollow reverberations in the sky-vault, he was beleaguered
by an anger and a darkness, and fury and fits and frenzy and frightfraught
fear, and he was filled with a restless tottering unquiet and
with a disgust for the places that he knew and with a desire to be
where he never was, so that he was palsied of hand and foot and
eye-mad and heart-quick and went from the curse of Ronan birdquick
in craze and madness from the battle. For the nimble lightness
of his tread in flight he did not shake dewdrops from the grassstalks
and staying not for bog or thicket or marsh or hollow or
thick-sheltering wood in Erin for that day, he travelled till he
reached Ros Bearaigh in Glenn Earcain where he went into the
yew-tree that was in the glen.

In a later hour his kin came to halt beneath the tree for a spell
of discourse and melodious talk about Sweeny and no tidings concerning
him either in the east or the west; and Sweeny in the yewtree
above them listened till he made answer in this lay:

O warriors approach,

warriors of Dal Araidhe,

you will find him in the tree he is

the man you seek.

God has given me life here,

very bare, very narrow,

no woman, no trysting,

no music or trance-eyed sleep.

When they noticed the verses from the tree-top they saw Sweeny
in branches and then they talked their honey-words, beseeching
him that he should be trustful, and then made a ring around the
tree-bole. But Sweeny arose nimbly and away to Cell Riagain in Tir
Conaill where he perched in the old tree of the church, going and
coming between branches and the rain-clouds of the skies, trespassing
and wayfaring over peaks and summits and across the ridge-pole
of black hills, and visiting in dark mountains, ruminating and
searching in cavities and narrow crags and slag-slits in rocky hidings,
and lodging in the clump of tall ivies and in the cracks of hillstones,
a year of time from summit to summit and from glen to glen
and from river-mouth to river till he arrived at ever-delightful Glen
Bolcain. For it is thus that Glen Bolcain is, it has four gaps to the
four winds and a too-fine too-pleasant wood and fresh-banked wells
and cold-clean fountains and sandy pellucid streams of clear water
with green-topped watercress and brooklime long-streamed on the
current, and a richness of sorrels and wood-sorrels, lus-bian and
biorragan and berries and wild garlic, melle and miodhbhun, inky
sloes and dun acorns. For it was here that the madmen of Erin were
used to come when their year of madness was complete, smiting and
lamming each other for choice of its watercress and in rivalry for its
fine couches.

In that glen it was hard for Sweeny to endure the pain of his bed
there on the top of a tall ivy-grown hawthorn in the glen, every twist
that he would turn sending showers of hawy thorns into his flesh,
tearing and rending and piercing him and pricking his blood-red
skin. He thereupon changed beds to the resting of another tree
where there were tangles of thick fine-thorned briars and a solitary
branch of blackthorn growing up through the core of the brambles.
He settled and roosted on its slender perch till it bowed beneath
him and bent till it slammed him to the ground, not one inch of
hirn from toe to crown that was not red-prickled and blood-gashed,
the skin to his body being ragged and flapping and thorned, the tattered
cloak of his perished skin. He arose death-weak from the
ground to his standing for the recital of this lay.

A year to last night

I have lodged there in branches

from the flood-tide to the ebb-tide

naked.

Bereft of fine women-folk,

the brooklime for a brother —

our choice for a fresh meal

is watercress always.

Without accomplished musicians

without generous women,

no jewel- gift for bards —

respected Christ, it has perished me.

The thorntop that is not gentle

has reduced me, has pierced me,

it has brought me near death

the brown thorn-bush.

Once free, once gentle,

I am banished for ever,

wretch-wretched I have been

a year to last night.


He remained there in Glen Bolcain until he elevated himself
high in the air and went to Cluain Cille on the border of Tir Conaill
and Tir Boghaine. He went to the edge of the water and took
food against the night, watercress and water. After that he went
into the old tree of the church where he said another melodious
poem on the subject of his personal hardship.

After another time he set forth in the air again till he reached
the church at Snámh-dá-eán by the side of the
Shannon, arriving there on a Friday, to speak precisely; here the
clerics were engaged at the observation of their nones, flax was being
beaten and here and there a woman was giving birth to a child;
and Sweeny did not stop until he had recited the full length of a
further lay.

For seven years, to relate precisely, was Sweeny at the air travel
of all Erin, returning always to his tree in charming Glen Bolcain, for
that was his fortress and his haven, it was his house there in the glen
It was to this place that his foster-brother Linchehaun came for tidings
concerning him, for he carried always a deep affection for
Sweeny and had retrieved him three times from madness before that.
Linchehaun went seeking him in the glen with shouts and found
toe-tracks by the stream-mud where the madman was wont to appease
himself by the eating of cresses. But track or trace of Sweeny
he did not attain for that day and he sat down in an old deserted
house in the glen till the labour and weariness of his pursuit brought
about his sleep. And Sweeny, hearing his snore from his tree-clump
in the glen, uttered this lay in the pitch darkness.

The man by the wall snores

a snore-sleep that's beyond me,

for seven years from that Tuesday at Magh Rath

I have not slept a wink.

O God that I had not gone
to the hard battle!

thereafter my name was Mad —
Mad Sweeny in the bush.

Watercress from the well at Cirb

is my lot at terce,

its colour is my mouth,

green on the mouth of Sweeny.

Chill chill is my body

when away from ivy,

the rain torrent hurts it

and the thunder.

I am in summer with the herons of Cuailgne

with wolves in winter,

at other times I am hidden in a copse —

not so the man by the wall.

And thereafter he met Linchehaun who came visiting to his tree
and they parleyed there the two of them together and the one of
them talkative and unseen in branches and prickle-briars. And
Sweeny bade Linchehaun to depart and not to pursue or annoy him
further because the curse of Ronan stopped him from putting his
trust or his mad faith in any man.

Thereafter he travelled in distant places till he came at the black
fall of a night to Ros Bearaigh and lodged himself in a hunched
huddle in the middle of the yew-tree of the church in that place.
But being besieged with nets and hog-harried by the caretaker of
the church and his false wife, he hurried nimbly to the old tree at
Ros Eareain where he remained hidden and unnoticed the length
of a full fortnight, till the time when linchehaun came and perceived
the murk of his shadow in the sparse branches and saw the
other branches he had broken and bent in his movements and in
changing trees. And the two of them parleyed together until they
had said between them these fine words following.

Sad it is Sweeny, said Linchehaun, that your last extremity should
be thus, without food or drink or raiment like a fowl, the same man
that had cloth of silk and of satin and the foreign steed of the peerless
bridle, also comely generous women and boys and hounds and
princely people of every refinement; hosts and tenants and men-atarms,
and mugs and goblets and embellished buffalo-horns for the
savouring of pleasant-tasted fine liquors. Sad it is to see the same
man as a hapless air-fowl.

Cease now, Linchehaun, said Sweeney, and give me tidings.

Your father is dead, said Linchehaun.

That has seized me with a blind agony, said Sweeny.

Your mother is likewise dead.

Now all the pity in me is at an end.

Dead is your brother.

Gaping open is my side on account of that.

She has died too your sister.

A needle for the heart is an only sister.

Ah, dumb dead is the little son that called you pop.

Truly, said Sweeny, that is the last blow that brings a man to the
ground.

When Sweeney heard the sorry word of his small son still and
without life, he fell with a crap from the middle of the yew to the
ground and Linchehaun hastened to his thorn-packed flank with feters
and handcuffs and manacles and locks and black-iron chains and
he did not achieve a resting until the lot were about the madman,
and through him and above him and over him, roundwise and
about. Thereafter there was a concourse of hospitallers and knights
and warriors around the trunk of the yew, and after melodious talk
they entrusted the mad one to the care of Linchehaun till he would
take him away to a quiet place for a fortnight and a month, to the
quiet of a certain room where his senses returned to him, the one
after the other, with no one near him but the old mill-hag.

Oh hag, said Sweeny, searing are the tribulations I have suffered;
many a terrible leap have I leaped from hill to hill, from fort to fort,
from land to land, from valley to valley.

For the sake of God, said the hag, leap for us now a leap such as
you leaped in the days of your madness.

And thereupon Sweeny gave a bound over the top of the bedrail
till he reached the extremity of the bench.

My conscience indeed, said the hag, I could leap the same leap
myself.

And the hag gave a like jump.

Sweeny then gathered himself together in the extremity of his jealousy
and threw a leap right out through the skylight of the hostel.

I could vault that vault too, said the hag and straightway she
vaulted the same vault. And the short of it is this, that Sweeny travelled
the length of five cantreds of leaps until he had penetrated to
Glenn na nEachtach in Fiodh Gaibhle with the hag at her hag's
leaps behind him; and when Sweeny rested there in a huddle at the
top of a tall ivy-branch, the hag was perched there on another tree
beside him. He heard there the voice of a stag and he thereupon
made a lay eulogizing aloud the trees and the stags of Erin, and he
did not cease or sleep until he had achieved these staves.

Bleating one, little antlers,
O lamenter we like
delightful the clamouring
from your glen you make.

O leafy-oak, clumpy-leaved,
you are high above trees,
O hazlet, little clumpy-branch —
the nut-smell of hazels.

O alder, O alder-friend,
delightful your colour,
you don't prickle me or tear
in the place you are.

O blackthorn, little thorny-one,
O little dark sloe-tree;
O watercress, O green-crowned,
at the well-brink.

O holly, holly-shelter,
O door against the wind,
O ash-tree inimical,
you spearshaft of warrior.

O birch clean and blessed,
O melodious, O proud,
delightful the tangle
of your head-rods.

What I like least in woodlands
from none I conceal it —
stirk of a leafy-oak,
at its swaying.

faun, little long-legs,
I caught you with grips,
I rode you upon your back
from peak to peak.

Glen Bolcain my home ever,
it was my haven,
many a night have I tried
a race against the peak.


I beg your pardon for interrupting, said Shanahan, but you're
after reminding me of something, brought the thing into my head
in a rush.

He swallowed a draught of vesper-milk, restoring the cloudy glass
swiftly to his knee and collecting little belated flavourings from the
corners of his mouth.

That thing you were saying reminds me of something bloody good.
I beg your pardon for interrupting, Mr. Storybook.

In the yesterday, said Finn, the man who mixed his utterance
with the honeywords of Finn was the first day put naked into the
tree of Coill Boirche with nothing to his bare hand but a stick of
hazel. On the morning of the second day thereafter. . . .

Now listen for a minute till I tell you something, said Shanahan,
did any man here ever hear of the poet Casey?

Who did you say? said Furriskey.

Casey. Jem Casey.

On the morning of the second day thereafter, he was taken and
bound and rammed as regards his head into a black hole so that his
white body was upside down and upright in Erin for the gazing
thereon of man and beast.

Now give us a chance, Mister Storybook, yourself and your black
hole, said Shanahan fingering his tie-knot with a long memoryfrown
across his brow. Come here for a minute. Come here till I
tell you about Casey. Do you mean to tell me you never heard of the
poet Casey, Mr. Furriskey?

Never heard of him, said Furriskey in a solicitous manner.

I can't say, said Lamont, that I ever heard of him either.

He was a poet of the people, said Shanahan.

I see, said Furriskey.

Now do you understand, said Shanahan. A plain upstanding labouring
man, Mr. Furriskey, the same as you or me. A black hat or a
bloody ribbon, no by God, not on Jem Casey. A hard-working wellmade
block of a working man, Mr. Lamont, with the handle of a
pick in his hand like the rest of us. Now say there was a crowd of
men with a ganger all working there laying a length of gas-pipe on
the road. All right. The men pull off their coats and start shovelling
and working there for further orders. Here at one end of the
hole you have your men crowded up together in a lump and them
working away and smoking their butts and talking about the horses
and one thing and another. Now do you understand what Im telling
you. Do you follow me?

I see that.

But take a look at the other end of the hole and here is my brave
Casey digging away there on his own. Do you understand what I
mean, Mr. Furriskey?

Oh I see it all right, said Furriskey.

Right. None of your horses or your bloody blather for him. Not a
bit of it. Here is my nabs saying nothing to nobody but working
away at a pome in his head with a pick in his hand and the sweat
pouring down off his face from the force of his work and his bloody
exertions. That's a quare one!

Do you mind that now, said Lamont.

It's a quare one and one that takes a lot of beating. Not a word
to nobody, not a look to the left or right but the brainbox going
there all the time. Just Jem Casey, a poor ignorant labouring man
but head and shoulders above the whole bloody lot of them, not a
man in the whole country to beat him when it comes to getting together
a bloody pome — not a poet in the whole world that could
hold a candle to Jem Casey, not a man of them fit to stand beside him.
By God I'd back him to win by a canter against the whole bloody lot
of them give him his due.

Is that a fact, Mr. Shanahan, said Lamont. It's not every day in
the week you come across a man like that.

Do you know what I'm going to tell you, Mr. Lamont, he was a
man that could give the lot of them a good start, pickaxe and all.
He was a man that could meet them . . . and meet the best . . .
and beat them at their own game, now I'm telling you.

I suppose he could, said Furriskey.

Now I know what I'm talking about. Give a man his due. If a
man's station is high or low he is all the same to the God I know.
Take the bloody black hats off the whole bunch of them and where
are you?

That's the way to look at it, of course, said Furriskey.

Give them a bloody pick, I mean, Mr. Furriskey, give them the
shaft of a shovel into their hand and tell them to dig a hole and
have the length of a page of poetry off by heart in their heads before
the five o'clock whistle. What will you get? By God you could take
off your hat to what you'd get at five o'clock from that crowd and
that's a sure sharkey.

You'd be wasting your time if you waited till five o'clock if you
ask me, said Furriskey with a nod of complete agreement.

You're right there, said Shanahan, you'd be waiting around for
bloody nothing. Oh I know them and I know my hard Casey too. By
Janey he'd be up at the whistle with a pome a yard long, a bloody
lovely thing that would send my nice men home in a hurry, home
with their bloody tails between their legs. Yes, I've seen his pomes
and read them and ... do you know what I'm going to tell you, I
have loved them. I'm not ashamed to sit here and say it, Mr. Furriskey.
I've known the man and I've known his pomes and by God I
have loved the two of them and loved them well, too. Do you understand
what I'm saying, Mr. Lamont? You, Mr. Furriskey?

Oh that's right.

Do you know what it is, I've met the others, the whole lot of them.
I've met them all and know them all. I have seen them and I have
read their pomes. I have heard them recited by men that know how
to use their tongues, men that couldn't be beaten at their own game.
I have seen whole books filled up with their stuff, books as thick as
that table there and I'm telling you no lie. But by God, at the heel
of the hunt, there was only one poet for me.

On the morning of the third day thereafter, said Finn, he was
flogged until he bled water.

Only the one, Mr. Shanahan? said Lamont.

Only the one. And that one poet was a man ... by the name
... of Jem Casey. No 'Sir', no 'Mister', no nothing. Jem Casey, Poet
of the Pick, that's all. A labouring man, Mr. Lamont, but as sweet
a singer in his own way as you'll find in the bloody trees there of a
spring day, and that's a fact. Jem Casey, an ignorant God-fearing
upstanding labouring man, a bloody navvy. Do you know what I'm
going to tell you, I don't believe he ever lifted the latch of a school
door. Would you believe that now?

I'd believe it of Casey, said Furriskey, and

I'd believe plenty more of the same man, said Lamont. You
haven't any of his pomes on you, have you, Mr. Shanahan?

Now take that stuff your man was giving us a while ago, said Shanahan
without heed, about the green hills and the bloody swords
and the bird giving out the pay from the top of the tree. Now that's
good stuff, it's bloody nice. Do you know what it is, I liked it and
liked it well. I enjoyed that certainly.

It wasn't bad at all, said Furriskey, I have heard worse, by God,
often. It was all right now.

Do you see what I'm getting at, do you understand me, said Shan
ahan. It's good, very good. But by Christopher it's not every man
could see it, I'm bloody sure of that, one in a thousand.

Oh that's right too, said Lamont.

You can't beat it, of course, said Shanahan with a reddening of
the features, the real old stuff of the native land, you know, stuff
that brought scholars to our shore when your men on the other side
were on the flat of their bellies before the calf of gold with a sheepskin
around their man. It's the stuff that put our country where she
stands to-day, Mr. Furriskey, and I'd have my tongue out of my head
by the bloody roots before I'd be heard saying a word against it. But
the man in the street, where does he come in? By God he doesn't
come in at all as far as I can see.

What do my brave men in the black hats care whether he's in or
out, asked Furriskey. What do they care? It's a short jump for the
man in the street, I'm thinking, if he's waiting for that crowd to do
anything for him. They're a nice crowd, now, I'm telling you.

Oh that's the truth, said Lamont.

Another thing, said Shanahan, you can get too much of that stuff.
Feed yourself up with that tack once and you won't want more for a
long time.

There's no doubt about it, said Furriskey.

Try it once, said Shanahan, and you won't want it a second time.

Do you know what it is, said Lamont, there are people who read
that . . . and keep reading it . . . and read damn the bloody thing
else. Now that's a mistake.

A big mistake, said Furriskey.

But there's one man, said Shanahan, there's one man that can
write pomes that you can read all day and all night and keep reading
them to your heart's content, stuff you'd never tire of. Pomes
written by a man that is one of ourselves and written down for ourselves
to read. The name of that man . . .

Now that's what you want, said Furriskey.

The name of that man, said Shanahan, is a name that could be
christianed on you or me, a name that won't shame us. And that
name, said Shanahan, is Jem Casey.

And a very good man, said Lamont.

Jem Casey, said Furriskey.

Do you understand what I mean, said Shanahan.

You haven't any of his pomes on you, have you, said Lamont. If
there's one thing I'd like. . . .

I haven't one on me if that's what you mean, Mr. Lamont, said
Shanahan, but I could give one out as quick as I'd say my prayers.
By God it's not for nothing that I call myself a pal of Jem Casey.

I'm glad to hear it, said Lamont.

Stand up there and recite it man, said Furriskey, don't keep us
waiting. What's the name of it now?

The name or title of the pome I am about to recite, gentlemen,
said Shanahan with leisure priest-like in character, is a pome by the
name of the 'Workman's Friend.' By God you can't beat it. I've heard
it praised by the highest. It's a pome about a thing that's known to
all of us. It's about a drink of porter. 1

Porter!

Porter.

Up on your legs man, said Furriskey. Mr. Lamont and myself are
waiting and listening. Up you get now.

Come on, off you go, said Lamont.

Now listen, said Shanahan clearing the way with small coughs.
Listen now.

He arose holding out his hand and bending his knee beneath him
on the chair.

When things go wrong and will not come right,
Though you do the best you can,
When life looks black as the hour of night —
A PINT OF PLAIN IS YOUR ONLY MAN.

By God there's a lilt in that, said Lamont.

Very good indeed, said Furriskey. Very nice.

I'm telling you it's the business, said Shanahan. Listen now.

When money's tight and is hard to get

And your horse has also ran,

When all you have is a heap of debt —

A PINT OF PLAIN IS YOUR ONLY MAN.

When health is bad and your heart feels strange,

And your face is pale and wan,

When doctors say that you need a change,

A PINT OF PLAIN IS YOUR ONLY MAN.

There are things in that pome that make for what you call permanence.
Do you know what I mean, Mr. Furriskey?

1 The Irish working man's drink, a black ale somewhat weaker and cheaper than stout.
Also known as 'plain porter' or just 'plain.'

There's no doubt about it, it's a grand thing, said Furriskey.
Come on, Mr. Shanahan, give us another verse. Don't tell me that is
the end of it.

Can't you listen? said Shanahan.

When food is scarce and your larder bare
And no rashers grease your pan,
When hunger grows as your meals are rare —
A PINT OF PLAIN IS YOUR ONLY MAN.

What do you think of that now?

It's a pome that'll live, called Lamont, a pome that'll be heard
and clapped when plenty more . . .

But wait till you hear the last verse, man, the last polish-off, said
Shanahan. He frowned and waved his hand.

Oh it's good, it's good, said Furriskey.

In time of trouble and lousy strife,

You have still got a darlint plan,

You still can turn to a brighter life —

A PINT OF PLAIN IS YOUR ONLY MAN!

Did you ever hear anything like it in your life, said Furriskey. A
pint of plain, by God, what! Oh I'm telling you, Casey was a man
in twenty thousand, there's no doubt about that. He knew what he
was at, too true he did. If he knew nothing else, he knew how to
write a pome. A pint of plain is your only man.

Didn't I tell you he was good? said Shanahan. Oh by Gorrah
you can't cod me.

There's one thing in that pome, permanence, if you know what I
mean, That pome, I mean to say, is a pome that'll be heard
wherever the Irish race is wont to gather, it'll live as long as there's
a hard root of an Irishman left by the Almighty on this planet,
mark my words. What do you think, Mr. Shanahan?

It'll live, Mr. Lamont, it'll live.

I'm bloody sure it will, said Lamont.

A pint of plain, by God, eh? said Furriskey.

Tell us, my Old Timer, said Lamont benignly, what do you think
of it? Give the company the benefit of your scholarly pertinacious
fastidious opinion, Sir Storybook. Eh, Mr. Shanahan?

Conspirators' eyes were winked smartly in the dancing firelight.
Furriskey rapped Finn about the knees.

Wake up!

And Sweeny continued, said corn-yellow Finn, at the recital of
these staves.

If I were to search alone
the hills of the brown world,
better would I like my sole hut
in Glen Bolcain.

Good its water greenish-green
good its clean strong wind,
good its cress-green cresses,
best its branching brooklime.

Quick march again, said Lamont. It'll be a good man that'll put
a stop to that man's tongue. More of your fancy kiss-my-hand, by
God.

Let him talk, said Furriskey, it'll do him good. It has to come out
somewhere.

I'm a man, said Shanahan in a sententious fashion, that could always
listen to what my fellowman has to say. I'm telling you now,
it's a wise man that listens and says nothing.

Certainly said Lamont. A wise old owl once lived in a wood, the
more he heard the less he said, the less he said the more he heard,
let's emulate that wise old bird.

There's a lot in that, said Furriskey. A little less of the talk and we
were right.

Finn continued with a patient weariness, speaking slowly to the
fire and to the six suppliant shoes that were in devotion around
it, the voice of the old man from the dim bed.

Good its sturdy ivies,
good its bright neat sallow,
good its yewy yew-yews,
best its sweet-noise birch.

A haughty ivy

growing through a twisted tree,
myself on its true summit,
I would loth leave it.

I flee before skylarks,
it is the tense stern-race,
I overleap the clumps
on the high hill-peaks.




When it rises in front of me
the proud turtle-dove,
I overtake it swiftly
since my plumage grew.

The stupid unwitting woodcock
when it rises up before me,
methinks it red-hostile,
and the blackbird that cries havoc.

Small foxes yelping
to me and from me,
the wolves tear them —
I flee their cries.

They journeyed in their chase of me
in their swift courses
so that I flew away from them
to the tops of mountains.

On every pool there will rain
a starry frost;

I am wretched and wandering
under it on the peak.

The herons are calling
in cold Glen Eila
swift-flying flocks are flying,
coming and going.

I do not relish
the mad clack of humans
sweeter warble of the bird
in the place he is.

I like not the trumpeting
heard at morn;
sweeter hearing is the squeal
of badgers in Benna Broc.

I do not like it

the loud bugling;

finer is the stagbelling stag

of antler-points twice twenty.

There are makings for plough-teams
from glen to glen;
each resting-stag at rest
on the summit of the peaks.

Excuse me for a second, interposed Shanahan in an urgent manner,
I've got a verse in my head. Wait now.
What!

Listen, man. Listen to this before it's lost. When stags appear on
the mountain high, with flanks the colour of bran, when a badger
bold can say good-bye, A PINT OF PLAIN IS YOUR ONLY MAN!

Well, by God Shanahan, I never thought you had it in you, said
Furriskey, turning his wide-eyed smile to the smile of Lamont, I
never thought you had it in you. Take a look at the bloody poet,
Mr. Lamont. What?

The hard Shanahan by God, said Lamont. The hard man. That's
a good one all right. Put it there, Mr. Shanahan.

Hands were extended till they met, the generous grip of friendship
in front of the fire.

All right, said Shanahan laughing in the manner of a proud peacock,
don't shake the handle off me altogether. Gentlemen, you
flatter me. Order ten pints a man till we celebrate.

My hard bloody Shanahan, said Lamont.

That'll do you now the pair of ye, said Shanahan. Silence in the
court now.

The droning from the bed restarted where it stopped.

The stag of steep Slieve Eibhlinne,
the stag of sharp Slieve Fuaid,
the stag of Eala, the stag of Orrery,
the mad stag of Loch Lein. . . .Embed Deep Brown Noise Soft Brown Noise Brainbox sleep