2 ContributorsNew Cats Lyrics[Verse 1:MF Dezze]
Welcome to the underground
Where the rap names sound like gibberish
Like don’t get mad that I haven’t heard of SK88Mulbero
They got hella accusations too
Like how hard is it for y’all to
Date someone your own age?
Like BK sleeping wit tana
And he the same age as your average high schooler
The type of shit these new rappers putting out
Sounds like shit
I would’ve been listening to if I was still a middle schooler but I’m not
And who the fuck is Ian?
This whitе kid put out one song that’s poppin
But ain’t nobody know shit bout his other music
You could just be anothеr lame for all I care
Cause who isn’t nowadays?
I wish I could go back to the days when rappers had interesting gimmicks
And where they didn’t have to resort to talking bout
Smoking backwoods like a hippie

[Chorus:MF Dezze]
These new cats think they got it
Well guess what
They don’t fucking got it
Huh
These new cats think they got it
Hate to be the bearer of bad news but they don’t
You might also like[Verse 2:MF Dezze]
The rapper you were rooting for all along
Was a goddamn criminal
Summrs put the hit out on Homixide Fatt like he was Michael Corleone
Oh you think you tough?
You as soft as a blanket
Why he shooting point rounds but the nigga blanking?
And Glokk never getting out of jail
That’s a hard truth to come by
And Nettspend fucking ass
A nigga wishes he would but then he fucking dies
Y’all don’t care about safety
Death is the new aesthetic
Yeah I said it yeah I said it
Yeah
These new cats think they got it but they pussy
And Bear1boss especially cause he meows
Yuh
But next thing you know
The test results will come in
And he’ll have to put the cup down
Izaya supports terrorists
That is a fucking no go
And they better not try to diss me
Cause that shows that they a hoe hoe
The underground’s full of white boys
It’s starting to look like the 2000’s again
And these underground niggas got no chill cause
LUCKI does not fuck wit Mexicans
You still listening to Homixide Gang?
Okay you satanist
These rappers ain’t even trying no more
That shit really makes me pissed
It’s like they were told what good music was
And then decided that it doesn’t exist
That nigga got fake motion
He not really on the Gram
Doing that shit
[Verse 3:MF Dezze]
Lotta sons in here
They need to find they fathers
Unless they orphaned
Then they got no fathers
I would not let an underground rapper date my daughter
How much you wanna bet that Aquafina these rappers favorite water?
Alright
Who want it next
Cause I’m coming after necks
Like a chiropractor
Dabo can’t go 3 minutes without his lotion
Glazing does not make you a good reactor
It’s like these rappers in scenes
It’s crazy cause they should be actors
And you beat someone up to settle your differences
That’s crazy
I had this nigga in a headlock the other day
I wasn’t letting go
He was begging for air
And that he got a family
But motherfuck your family
And what they stand for
Cause when I whack opps
They ain’t gon be able to stand no more
I can’t take this shit anymore
It’s like every rapper subjects themselves to a war
Done
[Interlude:MF Dezze]
Now I don’t mean to sound rude. But,like,someone had to say it eventually. The underground rap scene is so fucking corny nowadays. More corny than your modern day Eminem song. Cornier than any song off of Not Now,I’m Busy by Joyner Lucas. Pick any song. Any one. It still won’t make me review the album though. But you know what’s fucking crazy? The underground used to be good. Remember Slayworld? Ah ha,ah ha ha ha ha ha. They were so slayful back in the day. They could slay me all night long. This was back when Summrs didn’t abuse drugs,remember? And when Autumn was the freshest kid on the block,remember? And Yeat was starting to blow up with his Sorry Bout That song,remember? Remember when this was all quality and not the horseshit that it is now? Yeah,I remember. We need a change so desperately. Because I can’t take this shit anymore. Either they actually do something sonically interesting or I stop listening to and reviewing the underground. Got it? Good. With that being said,to all of the people I offended with this song,sincerely,suck a dick. Yours truly,Marquis FalconEmbed Letting Go 說到愛 Tanya Chua mandopop