1 ContributorThe Ten Worst Songs Of 2018 Lyrics10. Bebe Rexha ft. Florida Georgia Line - "Meant to Be" (for foot fetish references, sloppy writing and being extremely repetitive)

9. Zedd ft. Marren Morris & Grey - "The Middle" (for its bad EDM noises, talking about an abusive relationship)

8. Jake Owen - "Down in the Honykytown" (for being another pop-country song about first-world problems, against what country music is typically known for)

7. Tiesto & Dzeko ft. Preme and Post Malone - "Jackie Chan" (for being generic pop-rap and EDM, the similarity in Preme and Post Malone's performances and the for the song associating karate - a Japanese martial arts style - with Jackie Chan - a Chinese actor/performer)

6. Lauv - "I Like Me Better" (like 'The Middle' - for its contribution to millennial pop music's infatuation with weird noises and instrumentals in lieu of an actual hook, Lauv's vocals, sound effects and his lyricism about his lack of identity)

5. New Kids on The Block - "80's Baby" (for its forced 80s references, and nostalgia theme, deeming it to be 'Buzzfeed: The Song' and that the Stopera brothers - editors for the website - would orgasm to the song)

4. Meghan Trainor - "Let You Be Right" (for being yet another pop throwback, Meghan's controlling, militant attitude, and being another toxic relationship song)

3. 6ix9ine ft. Nicki Minaj and Murda Beatz - "FEFE" (for being another generic SoundCloud rap song, containing weird references to prison sex toys and contraband, potential references to 6ix9ine's real-life crimes and Nicki's strange performance and lyricism related to STDs)

2. Lil Pump - "EEESKITT" (like 'FEFE' - more generic SoundCloud rap, weird instrumental and performance, Pump's enunciation of words and nonsensical slang)

1. Iggy Azalea ft. Tyga - "Kream" (for having an incoherent and nonsensical hook, messy lyrics and a soulless performance from both artists; Iggy was especially criticised for releasing bad music despite a clear decline in her popularity and her peaking with "Fancy")

Honorable Mentions

G-Eazy & Halsey - Him & I (for its irony in the context of the artists' consequent split)

Drake - I'm Upset (for being gutless a rap song)
Ariana Grande ft Nicki Minaj - The Light is Coming (for Grande's lazy, cringe-worthy rap-singing)

Pink ft Elton John and Logic - Bennie and The Jets (for adding a rap verse to the song)

Tyga - Dip (for exemplifying the same pop rap tropes, like 'Kream')

Ella Mai- Boo'd Up (for its "hook" that consists of onomatopoeia instead of an actual verse)

Greeta Van Fleet - (for lying about not sounding like Led Zeppelin, despite the lead vocalist's jarring similarities to Robert Plant's singing)Embed Him & I (with Halsey) The Beautiful & Damned G-Eazy;Halsey indie