218 ContributorsTranslationsEspañolРусскийPortuguês5% TINT Lyrics[Chorus]
Who's that creeping through my window?
'Fore you come outside, I got the M4
Took her to the endzone from the Enzo
Know I love to smoke, you love the liq' more
Wanna hit the Jack, then what you call for?
All that out-your-name shit, that ain't called for, mm

[Verse 1]
Who that creepin'? Know the tint is dark (Five percent)
All that fall-in-love shit, gotta Kevin Hart (Yeah, yeah)
All that speed and fly shit, we might teleport, yeah (Skrrt, skrrt)
All that cop harass shit, I might clip a sarge', yeah (12)
Keep bouncin' that ass, you just might get award, yeah
If she bad, she get a pass into the tour (Passes, yeah)
I pick through the family, grab the bad sister like Janet
Opps outside, don't panic, gotta switch, gotta change up transit
Still jump around, move antsy, and I still don't like shit fancy
Up late feelin' real chancy, they outside really tryna end me, yeah

[Chorus]
Who's that creeping through my window? (My window)
'Fore you come outside, I got the M4 (M4)
Took her to the endzone from the Enzo (Yah)
Know I love to smoke, you love to lick more (Yah-yah)
Wanna hit the Jack, then what you call for? (Yah-ah)
All that out-your-name shit, that ain't called for (Yah)
You might also like[Verse 2]
Who the fuck is this?
Met somebody baby mama inside of the VIP while I'm tryna tip
Shawty said she holding, got a razor in her lip
Mix my cup and twist one up, I love that ratchet shit
She like-like iced out wrists, iced out-iced out wrists (Iced out wrists)
Fuck, don't kiss, fuck, she fuck, don't kiss (Mwah)
Look like friends, but she say they twins (Twins)
Jump right in, there's legroom in this Benz (Legroom in this Benz)
Ten miles to the crib, you know that's deep (Deep, yeah)
I think it's someone out there watching me, yeah

[Chorus]
Who's that creeping through my window? (My window, who?)
'Fore you come outside, I got the M4 (M4)
Took her to the endzone from the Enzo (Yah, yeah!)
Know I love to smoke, you love to lick more (Lick! Yah-yah)
Wanna hit the Jack, then what you call for? (Yah-ah, Jack!)
All that out-your-name shit, that ain't called for (Ya-ah)

[Outro]
Who's that creeping through my window? (The window)
'Fore you come outside, I got the M4 (M4)
Took her to the endzone from the Enzo (Yeah)
Know I love to smoke, you love to lick more (Yeah)58Embed 5% TINT ASTROWORLD Travis Scott house