5 ContributorsStalemate Lyrics[Verse 1:Skrewpac]
Yeah, like the bottom of the bottle (ay)
(phew, phew, n---a, yeah, ay, ay, oh)
Chill bitch
Ain't other n---a's that you deal with
Pull off [?] hit the killswitch (yeah)
Really, alright chill bitch
Ain't other n---a's that you deal with (ay, ay)
It get cold it get shivery, shit
It get cold n---a's get shivery bitch
(ay, yeah, oh, yeah, oh, yeah, oh, yeah, oh woah, yeah, ay)
I'm just frontlinin' (ay, oh)
Meet me on the frontline, (phew, phew)
So icy, ice, chill, cold, [?]
She gon' [?] bossed up lookin' like [?] (hol'up, hol'up)
Bossed up, glossed up (uh, ay)
Flossed up, yeah whats the cost bruh?
Whats the cost bruh?
It ain't got no cost bruh its Lacoste bruh
Hol'up, yeah, n---a's [?] well its gon' cost ya
Ay, [?], ay, yeah shoot, shoot, shoot, let me get 'em
Shoot, shoot, shoot, bitch let me get 'em
Ay, divide this shit up, let me split 'em
Whats the cost, sippin' on some potion
Shawty says she love it when I'm slow motion
She like it fast but she love it slow motion
[?] diamond and [?], diamond [?]
Where the fuck she get- (woah, woah)
Where the fuck a back stroking (woah, woah)
Shawty got the back stroking (oh)
Fucked up, now bitch back open (oh, huh, huh, huh, yeah)
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yes, oh, sound like the S on my chest [?] (hol'up)
I wear 8 chains on my great dane, I say skate mane
Mane, mane, bitch I look like mack maine, mane (ay)
Ride in that mack thang, that mack thang, that matte black thang
What the fuck man that n---a ride in both lanes (ay, ay)
I'm ridin' through the truck (oh yeah)
Bitch I don't give no fuck (oh yeah)
My n---a what is luck? (uh, hol'up, hol'up)
'bout to cut that buck, like [?]
Fuck whats the cost [?] (hol'up, hol'up)
Don't you cross me (uh)
I cross your [?] like my [?] (hol'up, hol'up)
D Rose (shh) I'm Vince Carter at the rail (uh)
Elbow hangin' (ah, ah)
Bitch, whole arm in the bowl (uh)
Watch it glisten watch it- (phew, phew)
Watch it glisten watch it glow (ooh, yeah)
Whole wrist in the bowl (oh, yeah)
I'm just fistin' the bowl (oh, yeah)
I got your bitch in the bowl (oh, yeah)
And she be- (huh) she let me (uh)
She let me hit the slow-mo, hoe, hoe (yeah, yeah, yeah)
Tell shawty get to stay up on your [?]
All my n---as co-ho- frozone (ah, ah)
Snow hot and chill (hol'up, phew, phew, phew)
(huh, phew, huh, phew, huh, huh, huh)
You might also like[Verse 2:Cities Aviv]
The Bobby Caldwell heart shaped record, no photo
I gave it to you so you had to take a photo and send it to me
I hope you got it, look at the heart
I hope you got it, gave it to you with intentional heart
I hope you felt it, its cold outside, hearts meltin'
Soul evaporate, suddenly evaporate into a higher state
The late nights got 'em in a higher state
Walk around through business hour
Business hours be the late night, you pay a higher rate
The Bobby Caldwell heart shaped record
I'm talkin' in the tone, you don't need no compressors
Hit you with no compressor, heard the sound 5 miles away
I'm on the HP 10 miles away, lightyears ahead, a million miles away
4 walls in my head, the curvature ahead
Match me the open doors in my mind
I like the chairs to lay back and recline
Remember the caddy?
Gifted in old vibes, shit gifted in '09
I hope we made it to the new decade, its 2020
Livin' in a new decade, refurbished the heartache
You play the game until you stalemate
You stalemate, you failed mate
(you feel me? you feel me? you feel me?)
([?] you feel me? you understand? you understand? you understand?)
(you feel me?)
[Verse 2:Cities Aviv]
(yeah) regardless you gotta pay the bail mate
Pay the price-tag, pay the bail mate
No alibi, no fail-safe
You walk through quicksand, try'na do whats right
They'll throw a stone and hide your hand, do whats right
Show you face, we need the name-tag
Pay the bail mate, pay the price-tag
Before you gettin' toe-tagged
Its all leadin' up to the toe-tag
Refrigerated, I wanna be sedated
Before their soul leave their body sent into the-
Its hot
Hot se frio, I'm with my ninos, headed for the new dominio
N---as lookin' through the peephole, don't hit the front door
(knock, yeah, knock, yeah, yeah)
A lot of vultures when I'm- (ay)
Open the door leave you shocked (yeah)
Can we find a place to close the door? (uh, yeah)
A new portal to dip into and see some more than theres worth (yeah)
[?] (yeah) glamor galore (yeah)
All the allure, not of this world but this world tempt me a lot (yeah, yeah)
Just pay the bail mate, before you fail mate, no alibi or fail-safe
You talkin' 'bout guys you never met (yeah)
I'm runnin' 'round with guys you ain't never seen to do (yeah)
Seen some things you'll never see (yeah, yeah)
3 shades you try'na peek through (uh)
Problems, you scream (yeah)
I got a week full, a whole year whole, a whole ear full (yeah, yeah)
I don't really wanna hear you, get near you
Why would I be near you? why you near?
Go over there, I point my finger out at the skyline
From a vantage point to see the whole skyline
Like this is my time
Just pay the bail mate, before you fail mate
You lookin' frail mate, you really lookin' stale mate
You play the game until you stalemate, you stalemate
[Sample]
I feel it in my heart
This loveEmbed