51 ContributorsI Got 5 On It (Remix) Lyrics[Intro]
Haha, the remix - 5 on it!
We creepin' in too, baby
We got 5 on ery'thang mane!
We got Dru Down; we got the Luniz! Shock G, wassup?
Numskull and Yukmouth! Richie Rich, E-40, Spice 1

[Verse 1: Dru Down]
You say you got 5 on my tender, you can bend her over the table
But be sure that you bring my stallion back to my stable
Say, brah? No elementary school-ground playing
Not a 5-dollar bill, but 5-double-zero on the real, feel?
I'm on the level, staying mellow
No criticism from the fellows, hello
Being keyed during a high-speed but still don't tap the B.B.'s
I'm D.D., Dru Down, baby

[Verse 2: Numskull]
Like Nyquil, I drop fevers
So either put your 5 up, or you gots to "Leave It" like "Beaver"
'Cause see, a nigga perpin' broke'll smoke your spliff all day
Go home and buy big drinky with his briddy then parlay
I got 5 on the Hennessy, Seagram's, or Gordon's
'Cause "This is How We Do It" like Montell Jordan
I'm from the Oakland City, Frank Nitti is a goner
Num' blowing it up like Oklahoma
You might also like[Verse 3: Richie Rich]
Put your feev' with my fin, best believe we'll bend
More corners than you thought 'til something right is bought
More z-zags? Believe that: tokin!
Where you from? Oakland! Smokin'
In attempts to crack the chestplate
The zips be so fluffy the whole town loves me
At every event I'm sacked up
So if you need me, scream "Double R!" when you see me

[Chorus: Michael Marshall]
I got five on it ("got it good!")
Grab your 4, let's get keyed
I got 5 on it
Messing with that indo weed!
I got 5 on it; it's got me stuck, and I’m tore back
I got 5 on it: partna let's go half on a sack!

[Verse 4: E-40]
"E-40, why you treat me so bad?" 40 makes it happen
Fosgate slappin' and revenue grows
From just a little bit of lightweight flamboastin'
Potent fumes, lingering mighty clouds and Northern Lights
You disrespect Vic da Baron
And you'll be violating my civil rights
I'm starting to feel my scrilla
But perhaps today my scrilla ain't feeling me
For the simple fact that I'm off to the track with hella fools, B
Pockets empty, pitching 5, man I'm dusted
Took off my hat, passed it around, man sprinkle me
[Verse 5: Yukmouth]
Me and E-40 to the head, comin' fed plus, you let the lead bust
Ready to do a murda, mayn; perved off the Hurricane
Slurred again, witness what bein' off two-fifths equal
Me killin' people like Jason, facin' death every sequel
(Insane in the membrane!) "Bring the Pain" like Method
Neglected, smokin' kryptonite to the brain for breakfast
Guzzle the Hen-do, finsta do the evil that men do
Give me feev', I shall proceed and continue

[Chorus: Michael Marshall]
I got five on it ("got it good!")
Grab your 4, let's get keyed
I got 5 on it
Messing with that indo weed!
I got 5 on it; it's got me stuck, and I’m tore back
I got 5 on it: partna let's go half on a sack!

[Verse 6: Shock G]
Yeah, it's been a while since I've hollered from the town
Mess around and heard Yuk' and Num', said I gotta be down
'Cause new styles is going down—look around you
Tunes from the Lunz spreading round and round you

Verse 7: [Shock G as Humpty Hump]
Back to get my O on, they let me flow on
The thirty-five on it, yeah, I'm on it
Still bringing satin for them drawers
Velvet for the mic and got a pound for the cause
[Verse 8: Spice 1]
Rolling up cannabis sativa, hitting the Mary Jane
Smoking the 5 before it's 12 o'clock, sipping on Hurricane
Better to smoke on the indo
Rolling up my window, finna to go to the land
With a handful of broccoli
When it comes to the sticky I'm the man
Crush nasty, I be hitting the J so hard I hurl
Fall on the floor fittin' to have a stroke
T-H-C ain't no joke
I got 5 on ery'thing, let's get loaded and smoke
S-P-I-C-E about to hit it and croak

[Chorus: Michael Marshall]
I got five on it ("got it good!")
Grab your 4, let's get keyed
I got 5 on it
Messing with that indo weed!
I got 5 on it; it's got me stuck, and I’m tore back
I got 5 on it: partna let's go half on a sack!

[Outro]
Yeah, wassup baby?
It's me, your boy with the cape that's always tight
You a little short on some ends?
Don't worry, I'll take care of that, I got 5 on that
I got you6Embed