1 Contributor​team f’yooch Podcast 001 • PE$O PETE: Canvas Curse Lyrics[Intro: Bona El-Zee]
Yuh (Yuh)

[Hook: Bona El-Zee & Trey1K]
Fooly Cooly, Fooly Cooly (Fooly Cooly, Fooly Cooly)
Fooly Cooly, Fooly Cooly (Fooly Cooly, Fooly Cooly)
Fooly Cooly, Fooly Cooly (Fooly Cooly, Fooly Cooly, Trey1K, yuh)
Fooly Cooly, Fooly Cooly (Fooly Cooly, Fooly Cooly, yeah, hold up)

[Verse 1: Bona El-Zee]
Fooly Cooly, Fooly Cooly (Fooly Cooly)
In the dojo chiefin' in the cut witcha groupie (Groupie)
Baby gon' hitcha knees, give me chewie-chewie (Chewie)

[Dialogue: DJ DAX, PE$O PETE, Bona El-Zee, [?], & [?]]
Yo, yo, it's DJ DAX, brrrrrah! Heh (Eat the dick like the snacks made for Scooby-Doobie, Doobie)
Of course, Team Future's one and only (Sacred crystals on my wrist, watch 'em drip, drip, drop, drop)
And I got a li'l podcast for you guys, it's team f'yooch, of course (Rose, quartz, amethyst, [?], yuh)
Tryna do this, every now and then (I can't trust anotha hoe, 'cause they jump ship, ship)
And, uh, this episode, I had to kick things off right (I just stick to the code, writtеn to the script, yuh)
I got my mans, PE$O PETE, we talkin' 'bout it all ([?] jewеls steady dancin' like Beyoncé, yah-yah)
So let's get on with the show, it's DAX and I got (If she ain't tryna fuck, then the bitch gay, yuh-yuh)
Ignorance incarnate here with me (Ninja sauce on the low like a sensei, yeah, hold up)
Yerrrrr! Woo! That was sound of the titular PE$O PETE (Got status spittin' flames like a intake, yuh-yuh)
You know what I'm sayin', man? (Fooly Cooly, Fooly Cooly, Fooly Cooly, Fooly Cooly, yuh)
Um, yeah (Fooly Cooly, Fooly Cooly, yuh, aye, Fooly Cooly, yuh, Fooly Cooly)
We're just bumming here on Discord, um (Fooly Cooly, Fooly Cooly, yuh, aye, Fooly Cooly, Fooly Cooly)
TIP 3? TIP 3? TIP 3? Don't (Fooly Cooly, Fooly Cooly, oh yeah, Fooly Cooly, aye, aye, Fooly Cooly)
Don't start with that, TIP 3? TIP 3? Don't start with that, TIP 3? Heh, don't— ([?] callin' on my line, but I can't hear, can't hear)
I mean, I guess it's what the people wanna hear, but don't start with that, heh (Ca-Ca-Catch me sippin' on some wine over bottled beer, beer)
Gotta expose me like that, why don'tchu? God damn, so, so you were tellin' me a little about this "Canvas" thing, um (Hiei witcha gun, eye 'cause I see clear, clear)
I'm over here thinking, "Yo, does he have a project in between?", "Is he starting a new collective, as he does every, every three weeks or—", haha, "Is it like—, like I, I don't know, like, what, what is it he's doing? Is it some song?"
And, um… turns out, it's a meme, tell me about that, ha, ha, everybody—, yo, I never, I never really really thought that this would be, the word
Or the phrase, that my music that kinda takes me off, ha, right, yeah, but, lo and behold, it is, um, as you should know
'Cause, like, it's show how relevant that song is, that's the number, uh, that's one of them, uh—, number one songs on iTunes out of Trap Ketchum, it starred
Right, um, of course you're referring to um—, ooh, that's crazy it's starred, I Don't Understand It
I Don't Understand It, yeah, um, the fifth installment in the, I lack knowledge about the current subject matter, heh, line that you have
Yesssss, you're fav', haha, yeah, it is, it is my favorite off that project, um, so you were saying? But, yeah, fuckin', heh, the line, I started my verse—, what happened?
Yeah, the line in your verse, yeah, I just start—, "Canvas?! Smeargle, I paint on the canvas", "Hop—", "—and do damage, Sableye, bitch, I'm a bandit, I'm robbin' yo' granny"
Kinda just started with "Canvas?!", and, that was the first instance that all of shofu's fans heard me scream, right
Or be loud, right, 'cause, like, a lotta, a lotta, uh, a, a lot of listeners of Trap Ketchum were, like, people who have never heard of my shit before
So it's like, that was probably my, like, my best performance, on that? And, um, it's kinda crazy, man, because, like, I never really would have thought, that that—, 'cause, like, I-I-I-I really felt—
'Cause I'm on Trap Ketchum four times, right, I felt like Kami Clouds, the bonus track I was on, would do a lot better, uhm, uh, okay, that's interesting, uh, but I Don't Understand It became the star of the show
And everybody just started hitting my D-M's with "CANVAS" in all caps, and, there's a "Canvas!" emote in shofu's Twitch server now, *Tongue Clicking*, haha, that's the funniest thing yet, and, um, people would donate on stream to shofu just to hear me scream "Canvas"
Right, like, it's come a long way and I-I don't regret it because, like, it's really cool, yeah, but it's like "Really, man?", like, "Am I just a canvas gimmick now?", like it feels like a, it feels like a—, "You're a living meme!"
It feels like a fuckin' gimmick, man, I don't know what to tel—, I-I don't know what else to say about it, and, um, I'm glad you're embracing it though… at least on your [?], oh, of course, it's fire
Yeah, I just hop in—, and it also gives me an excuse to scream, yeah, all the time, 'cause like, literally, there's, ah, so many instances where people come into shofu's server just screaming
And they either get banned, right, or they get yelled at, or they get both, uhm, and if I hop in and scream "Canvas", not only will people scream "Canvas" with me, but, uh, they'll laugh, yeah
And so I basically have a free card to scream wherever I go, heheh, um, which is my favorite activity, I'll have you know that, um
That's, when you're not, vaping, 25/8, heheh, heheheh, you're probably, like, screaming into your said vape, oh, of course, you know, you just gotta combine the two, heheh, but nah, it's, dude, it's, it's crazy, and that's what really blew me up
Like, I-I—, after Trap Ketchum dropped, I literally went up, like, maybe three-hundred followers on Twitter
Ooh, okay, that's interesting, yeah, I was gonna ask like, what'v—, what've been the consequences? But literally, like, how have you benefitted? Um, not that you're doing this for clout
I've gon' up like—, but, you know? Nah, it's—, shofu's actually a really cool dude, man, he—, I met him, through a Twitter interaction because he heard one of my songs and liked it
Um, and I—, I'm assuming it's, uh, the LIKE RED track, right? Yeah, which is actually—, even though HOP UP OFF MY WAVE dropped first, that was actually the first sh-shit he did was, he remixed LIKE RED, right
But, um… fuckin'—, he's a really cool dude, man, and, like, we just made music for the fuck of it, like I didn't have to be on Trap Ketchum four times, nor did I ask… to be clouted up
We just work together very well, uhm-hm, and, um, make shit happen, but, um, yeah, my Twitter followers has gone up, my Twitter, um, activity has gone up a lot, "Straight up!", but people—, yea—, don't even get me started on Travis Scott, heh
Um, haha, a lot of people interact with my Twitter more, it kinda gave me more of a public face, uhm-hm, um, I went from getting like ten followers on SoundCloud a day to like fifty to one-hundred somethin' followers on SoundCloud a day, okay
Like, geez, I'm goin' up a lot, like it's crazy and, uhm-hm, like, all my songs are gettin'—, doin' great numbers
Um, it's weird though, and, like, I was talkin' to one of my homeboys about this yesterday, is that… every time I collab' wit' shofu, new people are hearing it, and it's like, yeah, I have to reinvent myself again
And, like, one of my friends asked me, they're like "Yo, you have all these new songs out, why is TROUBLE IN PARADISE 2 back up on your spotlight?"
I'm like "Well, all these new fans", they don't know, "Hear me, hear me on Trap Ketchum, hear me on HOP UP OFF MY WAVE, hear me on all this shit, and they don't know about that shit"
Yeah, I literally met someone today on, on Pokémon Showdown! 'cause his, his, uh, his fuckin', tag was a lyric from one of Trap Ketchum's songs and I was like, oooooh, "It's me, PE$O PETE, what's up?"
And, um, I was linking him songs that, like, he should know about, but he just—, he like—, songs that me and shofu have done on my SoundCloud and he, he hasn't even heard those, so there's like a whole demographic that I haven't touched yet, so like it's kinda cool
Yeah, no, that's, that, I—, yeah, no, that's, that's really awesome, um, I was talkin' to, um, Laye and Louv about that yesterday that, um, something that's important is, like, expanding the demographic
And, I mean, I don't know exactly how wildly different is it, like, the people listen to—, that have been listening to you and the people that listen to shofu, but, you know? New people is always a good thing, right? Um, yeah
No, tha—, that—, that's awesome, um, and, yeah, I like, I like that you get that chance, you know? Uh, now, even a new feature you get with him, or vice versa, like, you know? That—, you, you get, like, a bajillion new first impressions, on like what you sound like
It's crazy, it's, it's, it's really cool, I don't know, and, like, what a lot of people don't know is that… I grew up on shofu's videos, I been watching shofu's YouTube channel since sixth grade, uhm-hm, I have, I have merchandise, yeah-yeah
Like, uh, I—, dude, like, wh—, like I told him after we made HOP OFF UP MY WAVE!, I was like "Yo, like I'm not just some nigga out here makin' Pokémon music, like you're one of my inspirations, like I've been watching your shit for like… fat, like a fat amount of time"
Heh, like, yeah-yeah, and like the other day when I got to be in one of his Pokémon Showdown!, uh, YouTube videos, I immediately sent the link to one of my high school friends and I was like "Yo", "Peep, [?] game!"
"We used to watch these shits in, like, fifth period", yeah, "And, like, laugh about it, and, like, here I am, like I, I came full circle", no, that's cool, and obviously it's, obviously it's just the first step in my journey, yes, but it's definitely a great first step
Yeah, no, that's, that's good that you have it in mind, um… but, yeah, no, I-I'm sure that feels cool, you're on the platform that you were once… looking at, you were watching on YouTube I should say, uh, yeah, it's crazy, man
But you know that's, that's all irrelevant, we just wanna know about, uh, TIP 3, right? Aw, god, um, listen, man, no, I'm kidding, um, we'll get there when we get there, it's on the way, uh, it's on the way, I don't care, uh, um
So, MELTYPETE, hahaha, uh, let's talk about that, uh, so, how-how-how-how do you feel about it? Its release? How it did? Do you have a, a favorite song? 'Cause obviously on Trap Ketchum, I mean, everybody's favorite song and… you know? Even mine is that: I Don't Understand It or whatever, but…
Now moving to the most recent project of yours, well, well, how do you feel about it? What's—, looking back at it, well, what do you think? Um, I feel like it was a failure, failure but?! All in all, okay, heheh, um, I don't know, we had such high hopes for it, it did well
Response was always positive because my fans are just… a bunch of fuckin' idiot—, I'm joking, I fucking love all of you, heh, but like, um, response was good, okay, but like, I feel like it was a failure all in all, I felt like it could have been a lot bigger
I felt like I was aiming for a more mainstream sound, and I didn't get the mainstream response in which I wanted… that's—, so you're saying, like, maybe critically, people like—, no one, like, out here hated it, but… maybe it didn't catch the attention that you wanted or do exactly the numbers you wanted or somethin'?
Yeah, I mean, it was fun to make, me and melty had a fun time doin' that shit, okay, um, it started off as like an idea just for—, to get more traction 'cause melty's one of my, like, biggest cosigns, clout [?], he's one of my, yeah, he's one of my biggest cosigners besides shofu
That nigga has stupid clout, yeah, and he's also one of my homeboys and, like, you know? I been wanting to do a project with him for a while after I dropped CANT THINK STR8, yeah, and, um… which, by the way, favorite song off the project, personally, it's also my most-played song to date
Oh, really? What's it at? Like forty-seven thousand, forty-eight thousand, oh wow, oka—, I mean, that's—, I think well deserved, prolly the closest thing you have to like… something that could ea—, like you could slip it right into the radio and it's like "Oh yeah, I mean, this fits, you know? This is good"
Yeah, that was kinda the whole point of MELTYPETE was to get me some more radio-type songs, okay, uh, somethin' a li'l more mainstream, somethin' that's eas—, like that could be easily marketed, right, no, uh, I get—, yeah, okay, but… I don't know, it—
And I might be wrong, but I remember when I was looking back at, like, first-month stats, uhm-hm, it was like par with, like—, obviously not counting the two singles that obviously did hella plays: EVERYDAY! and CANT THINK STR8, it was—, I think AFTER IT ALL was still beating it with likes
Like it was—, ohhhhh, it was slow, so—, which is a different feeling 'cause I-I'm used to—, obviously this is me being [?] ego nightmare, no-no, 'cause I'm used, I'm used to my songs getting a lot more, a lot more traction early on, so, like, I was—
Yeah, and I guess for the people that don't know, I mean… not that it's like garbage or anything, but AFTER IT ALL is, like, prolly one of your slowest moving projects, so it does mean something that, yeah, you know? This far in, even after all the… not necessarily clout but success you've had with, like, these songs, that melty's still kind of… a li'l behind
Yeah, I mean, it's doing well now, I-I haven't, like, listened to it or looked at it for a while, uhm-hm, probably because I had a lot of those songs on repeat while I was makin'—, nah, I feel you, same over here
But, um, yeah, so—, but I don't know, I liked how it came out, like, yeah, towards the end of it, it started off as like a, like a publicity play, but towards the end of it, I just kinda had fun, just dropped it, actually enjoyed it, right
Yeah, um, didn't really care what it did, it did kinda well, I think NO SLEEP! is almost at ten-K, the rest of the songs are all above four-K, uh, the two singles are well above twenty-K, like… now refresh my memory, was NO SLEEP! the one you were expecting to be, like, another… uh, oh, yes, yes pop-off single? Okay, for sure, alright, so that's—
That's why I put it as the first track, heheh okay, so that's cool, yeah, I'm glad that at least happened, you know? I see you, okay, and, well—, like, a lot of people loved it, it's actually my girlfriend—, one of my girlfriend's fav—, —made, oh, okay
But, um, I don't know, it just, just didn't do the numbers that I thought it would, I'm kinda disappointed, but, you know? A lot of people like it, like, everyone still sings it around, like, you know? A-Around these parts, 'cause I have a lot of, like, like, I have a big local following
That's, that's what a lot of people—, well, I don't even know if a lot of people don't know, but… um, that's what some people definitely aren't aware of: that you have a pretty like… I don't know about, like, decent local following, but you, you see the people… that like you, like, almost all the time I-R-L like… yeah
There are people in your immediate surroundings that aren't just like your girl or, like, your family or something that actually, like, come up to you and like "Heya, that song of yours and—", yeah, it's crazy 'cause, like, I'm, like, still like a legend in my high school, right
Like people still talk about me, people try to become rappers because, like, they know about me, yeah, people still listen to—, like, my girlfriend and, like, my friends who are still, like, lowerclassmen still, like, be like "Yo, like, niggas still be bumping your shit"
And, like, the other day I went back to visit some teachers and, like, these kids saw me in the hallway and they just stared and looked at me, like, they knew who I was, right, I had no idea who they were, and I was like "Wow", it's like, you know? Like, down in—, down, down where my, where my school was, like the surrounding areas, like, you know? A lotta people knew me
When I used to work at the mall, that was closer to my school than, like, my old house, people would see me in the mall and they'd be like "Oh shit", they knew who I was, um, it's pretty cool, um, got invited to, like, a few parties and shit, okay, okay, that's cool
Not like it's, like, anything too crazy, but it was, like, it was enough to be like "Okay, I'm, I'm, I'm getting somewhere", yeah, no-no, and that's, that's important, um, when I was—, um… I was in Vegas recently, right? And, like, I talked to a couple people that, you know? Are pa—, I guess are part of the same community we're in, um, I mean
People like Shiki, and of course, like, I know Laye and… and some people off in the [?] even, um, and, like, we were talkin' about—, like, like of course us, especially you as a SoundCloud rapper, right? Like, we're, we're thriving off of these, um, Internet plays or whatever, we find it, like, less important to necessarily be, like, rocking with, like, the locals
But it's cool that you get to have both, you know? Um, because, I mean soon, who knows? You might have, like, a set somewhere for some… party or festival or whatever, you know? And, like, it wouldn't be unheard of 'cause there are people there who like you, you know? Yeah, I mean, a lot of people hate me though, heh, that's a whole different story
Like a lot of people just 'cause—, like, I kinda just came up, I was the kid in the back of, back of the lunchroom playin' Pokémon, uhm, shirt tucked in, nerdy ass jit, and then, like, around eleventh grade, twelfth grade, I became, like, the most popular kid in my school… 'cause everyone wanted to be my fuckin' friend, everybody wanted to hear me freestyle, true
You know? Um, everybody wanted to know what the fuck was good, and—, like, so, like, a lot of people hated me, um, 'cause they're like "Oh, that's not the real you", "That's not this and that", "Like it's not that", and I'm like "Yo, it's not what it's about, like, I, like, I didn't switch up on nobody", yeah
I'm still, I'm still playin' Pokémon… you still out here watchin' hentai, you feel me? Yeah, I—, still playin' Pokémon, it's just that I'm playing Pokémon with shofu now, so… yeah, it's different, I don't know, like, um, one of, one of my old bestfriends, he was—
Like, he came up to me one day and he's like "Yeah, yeah, you really changed", and—, —"What do you mean?" Yeah, like, I just discovered—, if anything, I discovered who I really was… 'cause, like, this-this music shit… you know? And-And I say it a lot, it's like, you know? Without this music shit, I'd be dead, man, hm
This shit help me through a lot, uhm-hm, definitely kept me, it kept me out of doin' some dumb shit 'cause I definitely could be in the streets doin' some stupid shit, that's for sure, you know? I-I remember those times and, I mean, none of it's gonna be [?] here, heheh, but, I mean, yeah, you've definitely been through it, um
Even not too, like, long ago, right? I mean, it hasn't necessarily been super, like, smooth sailing for you, um, but that's what's cool, right? Like… people, at this point, both like you for, like, this insane, ignorant yelling, but, like, no—, as you can see, people still are showing up for, like, even your softer, like, melty stuff, um
'Cause, yeah, I mean, like, I like to make fun of you and say, like, you ain't got no talent or whatever which is fully true, heh, but, um, aw, it's—, like, you're still—, you're, you're doing—, you're definitely talented, like, you're putting out… these emotions in a way that, obviously, people can relate to, you know?
And sometimes, it's saying that… you know? Your mom… uh, eats sand at the beach or whatever, um, haha! But, you know? Sometimes, you're talking about… girl troubles or just… you know? Uh-huh, what, what you have in your mouth currently, what are you smoking, what are you—, like, you know? People relate, like it's—, this is life
Yeah, and, like, a lot of people—, and I get a lot from, like, the community quote, unquote, 'cause, I'm, I'm past that shit, you get what? Ev—, um, I feel like I get a lot of flak, uhm, because I'm not lyrical, right, I'm just, like, another "Ignorant" rapper, right
But to me—, and one of the most important things that I can do that a lot of these "Lyrical" rappers or other rappers can't do is that no matter what I say, if I deliver it in a certain way and bring a certain vibe to a song, yeah, I'm going to make you feel a certain emotion, yeah, yeah-yeah
I could talkin' about Hot Pockets, but if I croon that shit over some smooth auto-tune, yeah, bet your bitchass is gonna be cryin', yeah, tal—, thinkin' 'bout your ex, yeah, [?] Hot Pockets, yeah, no-no, that-that's… and, like—, and that's talent as much as it hurts them to hear it, right?
Yeah, a lot of people don't like it, a lot of people who were there since I started think that, like, I fell into a box or I did this and did that, like, I'll still drop a sixteen on your bitchass, while, great, I mean that's, that's, while I auto-tune, yeah, crazy, that's, that's what's crazy, right?
Like, you… like—, alright, like, I'm obviously not, like, the pinnacle of, like, lyricism or anything, but, like, you prolly have that over plenty people, including myself, because you were freestylin', like, on the daily, um, yeah, and that's something that even most of these "Lyrical, spiritual" rappers can't do right now, so—
Haha, I mean—, and, like, a lot of my songs are freest—, I don't know, it's just practice, yeah, like, uh, some nights, I'll mak—, like, I have, like, I wanna say, like, not to, like, exaggerate, and I'm really not, I prolly have like thirty songs… that will never come out, yeah, 'cause you're just freestyli—
That, like, I-I just make them, like, when I'm bored at night just to, like, keep—, you know? It's-It's-It's-It's almost like workin' out, you know? Yeah, you constantly wanna work out… to build your muscle mass, like, you know? I'm constantly freestyling, constantly making music, you know? Just so I can stay as sharp as possible
So, I-I did run—, I was on this point about, like, you know? Like, before, you were definitely—, you had gone through some stuff and, also, like, you said, like, you know? You were super nerdy back then, um, you know?
Some of that's still intact, but, at what point—, 'cause I-I have a guess, but at what point in your—, in, like, I guess your career, if you wanna say, like—, do you—, would you say this started, like, changing? 'Cause, like, I still remember you, like, necessarily, you know? We-Well, at the beginning, like, definitely not being noticed, but, you know? Out here trying…
On your Instagram and Facebook and putting stuff up and, like, like, for God sake, you… had a song with, like, Stayble, like, organically, ya know? Hahaha, like it was, it was just, like, what it was, you—, it wasn't for clout, it wasn't for his clout, it was just "Yeah, this is regular for me, PE$O PETE", like, wh-when would you say that that started changing?
RYUKO MATOI, huh? Okay, um, that was my first real, like, trap song, um, first real song that I actually, like, put thought into structure for, like, I was like "Okay, hook, bridge", right, "Verse", um, felt, like, a lot more professional, um, obviously, one of my more turnt songs of that time period, right
But, um, I-I think that was, like, the beginning, maybe it was, like, rising action, and then, like, the-the climax… would probably be around TROUBLE IN PARADISE 1, um… yeah, that's what I was gonna say as my guess: that, um, I think… the first TIP really, um, hahaha, God, cemented it, hah, um…
Yeah, a-a lot went down with, with that first one, um, there are songs on there that are still, like, looking competitive numbers-wise, BANG!, yeah, I mean, like—, and that's a song that, that the other day, I was like "Oh right, I have this in my likes, like… let me listen to it again" and, like, it still strikes me the same way
Like, at-at this point, like, if, like, the community manages to get several people that, you know? Get clouted up, this is definitely gonna be, like, a community classic, you know? Yeah, its greatest hits, for sure, I like the, uh, I like the idea of making songs and, like, them being, like timeless, like, MIAMI VICE is definitely another one of tho—
Yeah, um… one of—, I think my favorite off of, I guess, TIP 2, I hate that song, haha, I heard that shit way too many times, really? Yeah, okay, well, just because of that, alright, um… is there something you don't like about it actually?
Goin' back to it, yeah, it's, like, it's just fully—, it's, like, the—, fully freestyled, okay, it's just loud, uh, I-I lose flows at some points 'cause my voice is just dying, I don't know—, I think you definitely start, like, losin' the freestyle I think the second verse or something, like, there's something—
Oh, most definitely, yeah, but at that point, no one gives a shit, you're already hype, yeah, yeah-yeah-yeah, ha, um, I was kinda upset that that was the song that KILLINGSPREE decided to first repost and first interact with me—, —definitely rapped on his beats before, ummmmm, fuck that nigga… but, bu—, nah, I'm jokin', I love, I love that nigga
He's kind of a—, kinda weirdo, but proceed, I mean that—, okay, huh? What-What did—, what song did you expect him to repost first? [?], from something from that project or—, eh, I mean, any of the songs that I rapped on his beats, I don't know, it was, oh, it was just strange to me that, like, he wouldn't… peep the songs that I rapped on his beats with
But I guess MIAMI VICE just—, you know? And MIAMI VICE was crazy, even, like, Anonymuz saw that, oh right, right, um, you know? A lot of people really liked that song and then I, I followed it up in what I can think is gonna be the—, is, as of right now, the most… craziest back-to-back moment of my entire career was when I went MIAMI VICE and then ON ICE!
Oh yeah, that's true, you know? I haven't even put that together, yeah, you went from, like—, that almost would have seemed… premeditated like… huh? Yeah, like—, I'm not smart enough to do that, heh, yeah, I-I-I know, I know, ha, like, and-and-and not that it's a smart thing, but, like
You-You definitely move, um, you know? Very, uh—, like, you're just "Do what's on your heart", I guess, right? But, uh… eh, yeah, but, um… heh, to put it nicely, yeah, or ignorantly, um… yeah, but, yeah, that's crazy, 'cause that-that-that song popped off, too, um…
Do—, I mean, I-I'm sure you're—, are-are you proud of TIP 1 and 2? TIP 3 is gonna be crazy… it's crazy, you think—, it's crazy already, you think it's not even gonna compare? Like it's already on its own league? I—, at the way I'm workin' on it, yeah, mm, I already scrapped, like, four songs, alright
I'm havin', is—, I'm havin' Lewi go overtime, heh, alright, 'cause, like, I go back—, are you a scrapper? Do you scrap a lot of songs? No, I don't, okay, I usually don't just gi—, I usually don't give a fuck and I just post everything, that's interesting
Half of TIP 2, half of TIP 2 had parts in it where it was, like, "Shit, I needed to, like, redo that" and I just don't, I just didn't give a fuck, I just posted it, mm, but, like, TIP 2 is full of a lot of classics, we got LEGEND!, ON ICE!, MIAMI VICE, um, like, a lot of those songs really, like, resonated very well with my fans
And they're still classics to this day in, like, a lot of people's hearts, yeah, and I feel like it definitely did better than TIP 1… which is what I was tryna do, right-right, that's, a given, yeah, and then, like—, so, like, I'm moving very, very carefully with TIP 3, um, Lewi will send me a, like, a beat pack and I'll-I'll be very selective, you know?
Usually, mm,I just rap on whatever he sends me, but, like, I'm bein' very selective this time arou—, okay, um, I don't force songs, I-I, like—, back in the day, if I, like, couldn't write something to it, I just freestyled to it, bullshit, and put it out, but, like, you know? I'm not forcing songs (*Unintelligible Conversation*)
If I don't feel the beat at the moment, I'll let it sit for a while, you know? That's wise, yeah, no, it—, it's different, I don't know, *Coughing*, what, what do you think has [?] in this position? 'Cause, I mean, is it just, like, clout alone or is it, like, I guess, being around, like, shofu now? Like, the pressure's different (*Unintelligible Conversation*)
Well, one of the people, and I know a lotta niggas who hear this shit are gonna love him, 'cause I know everybody loves this nigga, alright, but, um, one of the people to really open my eyes is Matt Houston, you know, everybody's favorite, shout-out to him, um, that's my nigga, Matt Houston, LMTLESS ga—, I am part of LMTLESS, by the way
LMTLESS gang… so—, in this bitch, tha-that was gonna be a question for later, but, I—, is-is that, just, like, official? I don't remember seeing anything about that, yeah-yeah-yeah-yeah-yeah, he, yeah, he-he… fuckin' texted my phone, he's like "Yo, LMTLESS?", and I'm like "Let's go", okay, um, and you were say—
Matt has—, he's harsh, he's kind of a asshole sometimes, right, but, um, he has a certain take on music and a certain take on the writing process… right, that I think it was very important for me to hear, 'cause I kinda was getting too lost in the sauce, mm, with my freestyle shit, yeah-yeah
And Matt kinda… reinvigorated… my pen, so, like—, you know? Had a few woke-ass talks with him… and a few woke-ass talks with shofu, too, and, you know? I realized that I'm in a different league now, it's… it's on some different shit, you know? Right (*Unintelligible Conversation*)
And, like, yeah, my fans'll eat up what I post, yeah, people like the ignorant shit, but, like, I can make 'em better shit, I can make 'em better things, I could be doin' ignorant shit better if I write shit and plan shit, yeah-yeah, no, that's true, and, um… you know?
Yeah, I'm just, like, I-I have—, whether I like it or not, I have to be on a different wavelength, 'cause, like, I… I can't… stop moving with my clout, like-like, as I get more noticed, I have to keep leveling up, I can't stay on the, on the same floor, you know what I'm sayin'? Yeah, you can't stand pretty, I know
So that requires some reinvention, so I think TRIP—, and [?], TIP 3 might be a little different than TIP 2, um… but for better, but fo—, oh, definitely for better, I been playin' some, some snippets here and there, right, niggas' really fuckin' wit' that, um, prolly 'cause of different flows, prolly 'cause I'm… writing full verses… heh, again, um
Tryin' out new things, you know? I-I got the auto-tune down pat, I got the screaming down pat, right, try-tryna find, like, a good middle ground and combining the both of them to make a really, like, dynamic song, um, so then—, it's almost like some sort of theoretical science, you know? Like, ha, I'm just tryna find—, okay, it's-it's—, dude, it gets deep, man
Tryna find, like—, "Okay, if I scream this part of the hook and emphasize that, and then, for the bridge, I just ditch all ignorant shit and croon some woke shit, but then I come back for the verse and just write, and then just come in with heavy bars", mmmmm, it was findin' out what aspect—, it's like, you know? I'm buildin' a Frankenstein here, you know?
I'm, I'm tryna figure out which parts of each song… right-right, no, that makes sense, you know? Can make, can make this masterpiece and not some lumbering monster that just goes "Arrrrr!", no, so… that's funny, yeah, 'cause, um, I guess on, on my side of the thing is, like, I-I definitely have this thing always in my head of, like… (*Unintelligible Conversation*)
Like if I'm rapping a verse, I rarely like to, maybe like, keep the same flow for all sixteen bars, um, so it is interesting to see that you are also, like, experimenting, like, with the switching it up here and even finding a, like, a third strong suit, um, I think it's also cool that, I mean, that, uh, you know? Houston's… getting you to do that, I guess, um
'Cause, yeah, I mean… even the people in the community that necessarily aren't, like-like, hating on you have told you like, you know? "Your stuff's good, but maybe don't freestyle everything", um, so—, y'all need to shut the fuck up, I got more clout than all of you, hah, welp, hahaha, case closed! That's me being—, that's just me being ignorant
Nah, I actually wanted to take a second to shout-out some of the people in that community that I still… really appreciate, 'cause, like, I really wouldn't have got to my spot without a few of you, right-right, and that's, like, that's JaqKel, you know? Everybody in my, in my circle, you know? It's, like, bster, x, Lewi, oddwin, breh, um, yourself, uhm-hm, um, Azstro
But, like, you know? Really important shouts out to, like, Jurel, Ish1da, ummmmm, AGenius, he has heard me since I've had—, uh, you gotta ask him about that shit, I used to—, I remember one of the first songs I ever made was an open collab' he did and I recorded that shit on my laptop microphone, oh my god, no way
Yeah, and, like, it's funny now 'cause you—, if you go back to that, and, like, I ask him about it and I'm like "Look at me now, bitch!" Yeah, it's crazy, man, I have—, you know? So definitely shout-out to him, he needs to drop that song we made already, you stu—, I'm watchin' you, nigga, you fuckin' [?], believe me, I-I'm on his ass, you finna need a [?]
'Cause, like, I, uh, heh, heh, I made the cover art for, like, whatever project that's supposed to be on it and it's like "Alright, when am I gonna see it?" and, yeah, man's crazy, I haven't heard the finished song, I haven't even heard it, well, and—, ugh, that's good, 'cause it keeps you, you know? Steady, I guess, heh, I mean, hahahaha
And speaking of AGenius, um, Diggz, right, he's everybody's grandpa, mm, um, hah, that nigga's live, um… MangaD, you know? Yes, yeah, [?] MangaD, I'm tryna think, I feel like there's someone else on the tip of my tongue, RealVenom, very important, very important, I started—, dude, yeah, an—, you-you actually had, like, a lot of interactions with him in the beginning
And then speaking of where I started, shout-out Kawaii Gang, [?] forwar—, yeah, okay, wait-wait-wait, so, actually, um, I wa—, eh, I was reminiscing about that, so, like, RealVenom, y'all had the BLVCK OPAL thing goin' on for a bit? Yeah, we were, we were in a collab' group for a while, but… sadly, that's just not the type of music that I wanted to make no—
Right, no, and, like, you know? Like, you know? To-To each their own and it's both of y'all rights to, you know? As artists, yeah, you must do what you—, the music you wanna do, um, but also, Kawaii Gang, right? I mean, like, I-I, I for—, I forgot that you were shouting out KG on stuff, like, a while ago, like—, um, so I'm assuming shout-out to Timi, right?
Timi O, Tony Choppa, right, GMakin, Kels, [?], right, fuckin' bitchass nigga, but, um, nah, Tony Choppa and Timi O are, uh, two, two of the people in—, just like in AGenius' shoes, I recorded one of my first songs for them—for one of Tony's open collabs—on my niece's Samsung tablet microphone, yeah, I-I did—
And whenever I FaceTime Tony, 'cause, you know? Me and him are actually pretty close, okay, that's one of the things we always reminisce about, it's like "Damn, bro', I came from, like, fifty followers… trappin' off a Samsung tablet microphone…", heh, "On some stupid shit to, like, now, like, here I am"
Like, right, it's—, I-I'll never forget the days where I'd go into my stepsister's closet with the tablet, heh, and, like, I downloaded some bootleg recording app', or, like, I'd use the Samsung voice memo app' and then e-mail the voice memo to her computer and then use Audacity to mix that shit, heh, oh wow, [?] shit, shit was a struggle back then, bro', yeah-yeah, no, that's—
Aye, but that's how you know you really wanted it, I guess, even if it was effing around, like—, yeah, okay, but, um—, and speaking of beginnings, I just wanna touch on this, I don't really wanna talk about it too much 'cau—, —can't give free clout to the unworthy, okay, but, also wanna give a… empty shout-out to Rex, em—, yeah, more of like a—, just a mention, not even honorable
Yeah, it's more of like a—, it's more of like a nod, okay, definitely one of the first people I interacted with, uh, heavy, um, we disconnected because—, and what a lot of people don't realize is that… this rap shit is a business, this music shit is a business, I see, and if you, and if you don't do anything to ta—, to take it beyond business… um, you know?
Like, oddwin, x, Lewi, like, yeah, I work with them a lot, but they're also my—, you guys are also my friends, you know? Like, yeah, it's-it's past the-the fourth wall, like, we're not—, it's not just music no more, you guys past that, like, we're-we're homeboys, like, uhm-hm, you know? And, like, that's what keeps people around… to me because business is business
I do my business with you and I'm gone, and that nigga did nothing but keep it business, all he wanted was, you know? To give and then, and then expect back, like, as homeboys, oddwin can repost my shit, he's not gonna ask me for a repost back, right-right, I see—, or, like, JaqKe—, like, JaqKel can repost my shit, I won't—, like, you know? He might ask for a repost back
But if I fuck wit' one of his songs heavy, he'll know 'cause I'll repost that shit, you know? I'm not wit' that whole, like, "Oh, if you support me or, like, I gotta support you back", that's—, it—, there's a difference between being my friend and, like, a business partner, and then being just a fan, ummmmm, you know what I'm sayin'? Yeah
So—, just wanted to touch on that real quick, but, yeah, yeah, [?] type [?], I meant—, well, well, we'll keep it moving, um… but, uh, I mean, I guess, my two cents: I-I don't necessarily personally have something against the guy, I mean, I'm-I'm neutral to him, you know? He's, he's definitely… putting out music, but it is unfortunate, in general, I'll say, um…
To—, when, when stuff like that is miscommunicated, um, and that's something we see a lot in the community, I guess, like, all this drama and whatnot, you know? Quote unquote "Beef", um, seriously, it's honestly just 'cause—, like, there-there's some sort of misunderstanding, like, it's never that serious over here, you know? Um, but I mean, y-you're in greener pastures now
Like you-you get the luxury of not necessarily havin' to care, um, yeah, I, I decided to distance myself from that shit, yeah, 'cause, even though I met a lot of cool people and, like, I still talk to a lot of these people, I think the community itself is a gimmick, uhm, I think that… it's a bunch of… hands behind peoples' backs, you know? Uhm
And a lotta, like, how do I say this? It's like a lotta, like, hidden meanings, you know? A lot of people want—, it's like, it's… it's not real c—, like, camaraderie, so to speak, right, you know? People just want what they want from other people and that's really it, and, like, it's true, it's a, it's a bad environment to grow in
I'll never, I'll never disrespect to the fullest 'cause that's where I started, right, but… that's a box that I refuse to keep myself—, and, like, even though—, hella—, I know, like—, I met hella people, like, that's like my family, like, you know? Mm, so many people that I've met that have got me through life and that have, and that have, you know? Taken me to where I am now
Or from that community, but… it's like high school, like, you know? Very much, if you don't kn—, if you don't have… you know? The grit or the talent or the motivation to put yourself out of that box and then grow on your own… you'll just be stuck in that same shit for the rest of your damn life, nah, you're right, and I had, had to make an executive decision, ya know?
I sti—, I-I still kept in contact with everyone that I needed to… mm, and everyone that wanted to, and, you know? I still try to give my two cents in here and there, but… when do you think this decision went full force? Um, 'cause-'cause if-if, if I were to, I guess, erroneously guess, I know—, I can see you being, uh, most in touch with, like, that project, um… your MIRAMAR joint, right?
But I don't know, like, was it progressive or was there, like, an album, or project, whatever, that you were like "No, really, like, I'm, I'm literally not doing it for a community, like, it's just Lewi and I or I'm just—", you know? Like, what like—, um, TROUBLE IN PARADISE 2, okay, was definitely, like, the full set-in of that, me and Lewi sat down like usual, we have, like, late night conversations
Talk business, talk people, mm, you know? That's my right-hand man, gotta keep him close, right, you dig? So, like, um… and we both agreed, you know? The community's not offering us anything that we haven't already obtained, already, we've passed everybody else, mm, um, not totally number-wise, but, like—, came from nothing, man, and I became one of the golden childs, you know?
One of the golden children of the community, you know? Yeah, no, um—, everybody still root—, e-e-everybody still rootin' for me, everybody still rootin' for us, but, like, I feel like we have bigger things to chase right now, we've-we've-we've done what, ah, we've done what we could at that stage and we just kinda need to find our next pasture… to thrive in, yeah, no, for sure, um
I think, like, you were saying, you're very much the people—, the person that people root for and then away, like, I mean… I know people have had groups and artists have been big before within the community, but you, you might be on track to be, prolly like, the closest to, like, the biggest face for the community, you know?
'Cause, like, I mean, I might be mad ignorant right now, but, like, no really comes to mind that, like, is really this—, in-in, like, this mu—, many Venn diagrams of, like, demographics, you know? Like, soon… like, if we start projecting PETE now, like, with your ties to shofu and even if you start making, like, some of, like, some of your own stuff, you may very well be involved in this community thing
Um, and of course I know it's cringe, but whatever, like, the-the, the otaku, like, nerd stuff, like, 'cause you might mention it here and there… yeah, and then also, like, with the shofu stuff, like, the Pokémon scene, but that might branch into even just, like, gaming and, like, the YouTube scene which is different, um, like, even, like, the Smash scene which comes with its own thing, like—
And, like SoundCloud rap is a thing and, like, you're in Florida, you know? Heheh, like—, I got a lot of shit lined up for me, so, like—, heh, yeah, I ha—, I definitely—, I'm definitely on some pay-to-win shit right now, that's for sure, yeah-yeah, um
So… I guess so we don't keep goin' on forever, I mean… I know you and I—, how long you tryna—, you said what? How long you tryna make this? Haha, no-no, I-I'm gonna wrap it up, that's, that's why I say that, I mean, 'cause I know you and I could talk forever, but I mean, oh for sure, for the sake of… the upload, um…
Yeah, I don't know how many SoundCloud minutes you got, boy, ha, nah, I-I pay, haha, I got money unlike some canvases over here, um, don't choke on your vape, um, aha, I almost did, ha, oh fuck, ahahaha, what is… I guess one to two, like—, your biggest, your biggest goal with TIP 3? Like, what is what you really wanna get out of it the most? 'Cause I know it's on the way
I wanna see—, I want, I want this to be the defining moment for me and Isaiah, um, droppin' government names 'cause it's serious now, mm, um, I want this to be the defining moment for the both of us and I wanna see us not to struggle anymo—, 'cause it's very hard for both of us, yeah, you know? With Lewi's laptop and then you—
If it's not me eating, yeah, eating air for dinner, then it's, it's Lewi hitting my line saying "Yo, PE$O, can you PayPal me a few bucks? Like, I can't Uber home, like, I can't make it home from work", like, shit is tough, and, like, one of the main reasons why TIP 3 hasn't been worked on as much, because of that, yeah, is because… um, Lewi couldn't afford Internet for a while
He didn't have Internet in his crib, uhm, so, like, even if he was making beats for me, there was no way that I'd be able to receive them, yeah, so, you know? Financial obligations and, like, the overall struggle of just life for both of us really put a hold on that shit
Like, I-I-I get that I kinda talked way too much shit about it coming out sooner than it was supposed to be, uhm-hm, but, um…, 'cause it prolly felt like it was soon, a—, you just don't know, yeah, you can't plan for these things
But then all that shit happened, Lewi's computer broke, God bless shofu for helping us, um, he definitely topped off the donation pool that wa—, that we, that we were—, —to get Lewi a new P-C, right, and, you know? Get him back and running, but, like, all that shit started happening, I had to transition into college which I'm transitioning out of already, haha
Um, because I have other plans with life, [?], but, um, yeah, you feel me? But, um, yeah, I want this to be the defining moment for the both of us: to open the door for us, no oddwin, and, um, ha, and really get us, really get us, like—, the foot in the door like, "We're here", like, I see, "What's up, Trippie Redd?", like-like, you know? Okay, "What's up, Pump?"
Like, "We're here", like, "We been here, look at us, it's time, it's—, we're-we're 'boutta fuck shit up", right, like, you know? And, like, I definitely feel like if I sit back and I focus, and Lewi sits back and he focuses, we can make that happen, 'cause TIP 2 did amazing, right, I would have never thought that would get numbers like that… holistically for a whole mixtape ever, TIP 2 did amazing
Yeah, yeah, lot of it was fuckin' around, and if it TIP 2 was fuckin' around, Lord knows that if we sit back and we really plan shit for TIP 3, it can be, oh, excuse me, I almost died, it can be a masterpiece, and, you know? [?], I-I-I—, yeah, that's-that's the craziest thing: that I think it's so plausible, if you look at the—, all of the TIPs, um, exponentially, hahaha, pause! Haha
Like, you know? You're going from, like, your ten-K's to your forty-K's to—, I mean, dude, like, I—, it's not unheard of, like, you might be hitting your hundred-K's soon, you know? Yeah, and not that that's the ceiling, but… I mean, if you really wanna factor it in, the LIKE RED remix on shofu's YouTube cha—, —um, that's the first song I've ever been on that's hit a hundred-K, true, that's true
Um, a song that I'm on has starred on iTunes, we're-we're-we're hitting hu—, three—, like, three-hundred-thousand plus on Spotify streams for Trap Ketchum, like, that's what's up, you know? And a lot of my songs are the top-played ones, you know? It's like… it's just more and more opportunities and more and more reasons to keep pushing out what I'm trying to do, okay
And, um, I, yeah, I guess it helps I got a lot of people with clout on my side, but, like, we—, I-I don't see it like that, like, that's just my team, we're stacked, and we're ready to fuck shit up, heheh, like, um, yeah, that's great, got a lot of shit on the way, man, and, like, I been really practicing, honing my craft
'Cause I really feel like if we make the right moves at the right time, uhm-hm, 2018 will be the year, nah, man, I mean, I-I see you're workin' here, it goes down in the servers all the time, um, you're, you're close to your fans and you're even closer with, you know? The fam' slash team you have, so, yeah, I mean, haha, I—, if it's anyone, I definitely believe it-it'd be you, um, [?]
Yeah, man, I-I-I-I take this, I take this Discord as an example, yeah, you know? I kinda just put the link out there 'cause, like, I wanna interact with my fans, but, like, a lot of people are in here-re, yeah, it kinda, kinda blew my mind how many pe—, —and, like, I have, like—, Matt's here, Natsu's here, Arzon's here, uhm-hm, oddwin's here, bster's here, shofu's here, um, fuckin', you're here
Buncha producers from the community are here, you got, like, Jvan, um, fuckin' UBER BEATS, right, Based Gucci, um, dude, like, hella—, INTERNET—, even INTERNET USER's here, like, it's just like, fuckin', "There's hella people in here" and, like, that just shows how far my-my-my reach has extended… like, there's so many people in here from fans to people that have way more clout than me, like, you know?
Just, everybody-everybody's just here, like, I-I-I feel like I'm-I'm really building this—, my-my own community revolving around my music, yeah, and we're turning into quite the powerhouse over here, and niggas'll have to start watchin' out, 'cause, heh, we got some shit on the way, nobody ready! Well, I guess you guys heard it here first, folks, uh, hahaha
2018, there's gonna be a lotta cash, a lotta of mula, a lotta PE$O, um, you know what I'm sayin', cool, I mean, I-I guess that's it for the li'l podcast, um, I'm tryna do more of these, um, obviously, follow the Team Future page, I'm doing music (Sacred crystals on my wrist, watch 'em drip, drip, drop, drop)
But of course PETE is over here always doing music (Rose, quartz, amethyst, [?], yuh)
Um, Matt's single—, yurrrrr! Go ahead (I can't trust anotha hoe, 'cause they jump ship, ship)
Oh woah, "Yurrrrr!", you know? Okay, uh-uh, haha (I just stick to the code, written to the script, yuh)
Yurrrrr! Um, okay! Aye! ([?] jewels steady dancin' like Beyoncé, yah-yah)
Uh, heheheh, he's constantly putting music (If she ain't tryna fuck, then the bitch gay, yuh-yuh)
Shout-out to Ski Mask, um, and, uh (Ninja sauce on the low like a sensei, yeah, hold up)
And it's usually gonna wreck your, your subwoofers (Got status spittin' flames like a intake, yuh-yuh)
So definitely check him out all the time, I'm sure— (Fooly Cooly, Fooly Cooly, Fooly Cooly, Fooly Cooly, yuh)
Fact, we almost broke JaqKel's headphones yest—, like, a few days ago, heh, but that's a different story (Fooly Cooly, Fooly Cooly, yuh, aye, Fooly Cooly, yuh, Fooly Cooly)
It's a different story! But I'm-I'm sure [?] (Fooly Cooly, Fooly Cooly, yuh, aye, Fooly Cooly, Fooly Cooly)
But, uh, ye', thanks for having me, yeah-yeah, always (Fooly Cooly, Fooly Cooly, oh yeah, Fooly Cooly, aye, aye, Fooly Cooly)
In my—, in—, like, this, this imaginary, like—, I-I'm, like, imagining, like, a No Jumper setup ([?] callin' on my line, but I can't hear, can't hear)
Yes-Yes-Yes, um, we're at a table right now, yeah, no (Ca-Ca-Catch me sippin' on some wine over bottled beer, beer)
You and I are prolly one of the few that are actually out here… (Hiei witcha gun, eye 'cause I see clear, clear)
Using government names and using our real faces for stuff, so… (Don't get, don't get blinded by my light like a damn deer, yuh-yuh)
Yeah, I had to, yeah, no, you know? The— (Trans-Transparent with the juice, strong like Everclear, oh yeah, hold up)
People need to see there's a face behind this canvas (She just wanna ride the wave like we in a [?], yuh-yuh)
I'm-I'm too, wow, I'm too me to not, but, yeah (Snap-Snapchat, witcha hoe, fuckin' disappear, disappear)
What do I say to end this? I don't know, uh, see you next time, canvas! (Whip-Whip-Whip-Whippin', whippin' in my hovercraft, I'm switchin' gears, I'm switchin' gears)
Okay, team f'yooch, we're out, heheh (Mediated, now my chakra's restored, yuh-yuh)
[Verse 2: Bona El-Zee]
Now I'm, now I'm back up on my grind like a skateboard (Oh yeah, hold up)
Spread your wings, fly high, now it's time to soar (Soar)
Mary Jane got me high, chiefin' Bulbasaur (Yuh-Yuh)

[Hook: Bona El-Zee]
Fooly Cooly, Fooly Cooly (Fooly Cooly, Fooly Cooly)
Fooly Cooly, Fooly Cooly (Fooly Cooly, Fooly Cooly)
Fooly Cooly, Fooly Cooly (Fooly Cooly, Fooly Cooly)
Fooly Cooly, Fooly Cooly (Fooly Cooly, Fooly—)Embed X Gon' Give It To Ya - Int'l Bonus track Grand Champ DMX hardcore