3 Contributors“Shikwa” A Muslim’s complaint to Allah LyricsShikwa
THE COMPLAINT (of a Muslim to Allah)
Stanza (1)

Kyun Ziyaan Kaar Banun, Sood Framosh Rahun
Fikr-e-Farda Na Karum, Mahw-e-Ghum-e-Dosh Rahun

Why should I waste money (by giving to poor)? Why should I forbear to seek Riba (Interest)?
Why shouldn’t I worry about the life in this world, Why should I live in the shadows of the sorrow of my sins fearing the hereafter?

Naale Bulbul Ke Sunoon, Aur Hama Tan Gosh Rahun
Humnawa Main Bhi Koi Gul Hun Ke Khamosh Rahun

Must I hear the happy songs of Bulbul and not join them, instead stay silently alert
O my fellow friend! Am I florae that I must not speak or react?

Jurrat Aamoz Miri Taab-e-Sakhun Hai Mujh Ko
Shikwa Allah Se Khakam Badahan Hai Mujh Ko

My courage is highly tested, I am aware of my gift of free speech
I complain to Allah; lying low in dust (in humility) that my Lord has become carefree of me
Stanza (2)

Hai Baja Shewa-e-Tasleem Mein Mashoor Hain Hum
Qissa-e-Dard Sunate Hain Ke Majboor Hain Hum
Its true that we are famous for obediently accepting our fate,
But I must narrate my painful tale for I am now incapacitated to bear it any longer

Saaz-e-Khamosh Hain, Faryad Se Maamoor Hain Hum
Nala Ata Hai Agar Lab Pe To Maazoor Hain Hum

We do seem like voiceless lyres, but within are imprisoned anguished cries;
If the cacophony of sadness is pouring out of my lips, it’s because I can contain it within, no more


Ae Khuda Shikwa-e-Arbab-e-Wafa Bhi Sun Le
Khugar-e-Hamd Se Thora Sa Gila Bhi Sun Le

O My Lord, hear out the complaints from your faithfuls too;
We who tirelessly praise you Lord, must now sing out some woes too
Stanza (3)

Thi To Maujood Azal Se Hi Teri Zaat-e-Qadim
Phool Tha Zaib-e-Chaman, Par Na Preshan Thi Shamim

Your Omnipotent self, has always been Omnipresent;
From time immemorial flowers adorned the nurseries & there was dew, unperturbed.

Shart Insaaf Hai, Ae Sahib-e-Altaf-e-Amim
Boo-e-Gul Phailti Kis Tarah Jo Hoti Na Nasim
This is the rule of righteousness; O Lord! from whom all favours flow,
How would the world have known the fragrance of flowers, Had there been, no breeze.



Hum Ko Jamiat-e-Khatir Ye Preshani Thi
Warna Ummat Tere Mehboob (S.A.W.) Ki Diwani Thi

Ummat e Mussalma as a unit was feverishly mercurial (in spread your word)
Were we not insanely in love with your Beloved(S.A.W)?

Stanza (4)

Hum Se Pehle Tha Ajab Tere Jahan Ka Manzar
Kahin Masjood The Pathar, Kahin Maabood Shajar

Afore us (The Muslim Ummah)! Lost was Your world in strange tides;
Some bowed to rocks, and elsewhere divinity belonged to trees

Khugar-e-Paikar-e-Mahsoos Thi Insaan Ki Nazar
Manta Phir Koi Un-Dekhe Khuda Ko Kyunkar

Man was a enslaved to the sense of sight and touch
How could then have anyone believed in an unseen God

Tujh Ko Maalum Hai Leta Tha Koi Naam Tera?
Quwwat-e-Baazoo-e-Muslim Ne Kiya Kaam Tera

You know this O Lord! Was there anyone who prayed to You?
It was the might of the Muslims’ resolve that fulfilled this task for You.

Stanza (5)

Bas Rahe The Yahin Saljuq Bhi, Toorani Bhi
Ahl-e-Chin Cheen Mein, Iran Mein Sasaani Bhi

There were kingdoms thriving here of the Seljukes and the Turanians;
Chinese in China, Iran was ruled by Sasasian


Issi Maamoore Mein Aabad The Yoonani Bhi
Issi Dunya Mein Yahudi Bhi The, Nusraani Bhi

Elsewhere in this labyrinth were flourishing Greeks,
Then there were somewhere lying low the Jews, and then the Christian.

Par Tere Naam Pe Talwar Uthai Kis Ne
Baat Jo Bigri Huwi Thi, Woh Banaai Kis Ne

Who among those nations, raised their swords for You,
Who amongst them had straightened Your affairs for You
Stanza (6)

Thae Hameen Ek Tire Maarka Aaraaon Mein!
Khushkion Mein Kabhi Larte, Kabhi Dariyaon Mein,

We (Muslim Ummah) were the only believers waging Your Holy Wars,
Fighting frantically in the deserts and amidst mighty rivers

Deen Azaanen Kabhi Europe Ke Kaleesaaon Mein
Kabhi Africa Ke Tapte Huwe Sehraaon Mein.

We resounded the calls to prayers in the churches of Europe,
Then again the burning sands of Africa echoed with our calls to prayer

Shan Ankhon Mein Na Jachti Thi Jahan Daron Ki
Kalima Parhte The Hum Chaon Mein Talwaron Ki

We were such that the glory of mightiest kings would not impress us.
We recited words of Your Oneness under shadows of bare swords.
Stanza (7)

Hum Jo Jeete The To Jnagon Ki Musibat Ke Liye
Aur Merte The Tere Naam Ki Azmat Ke Liye

We lived, so to endure the hardships of the battleground (for Allah)
And we died to glorify Your name in the world.

Thi Na Kuch Taeg-Zani Apni Hukumat Ke Liye
Sar-Bakaf Phirte The Kya Dehar Mein Doulat Ke Liye
We didn’t unsheathed our sword to build kingdoms for ourselves
Did we carry our coffins on our back in the wilderness of the world for treasures?

Qaum Apni Jo Zar-o-Maal-e-Jahan Par Marti,
But Faroshi Ke Iwaz But Shikni Kyon Karti?

Had the Ummah(Muslim nation) been desirous of worldly gold and wealth
Would we have exchanged making of idols for destruction of idols!





Stanza (8)



Tal Na Sakte Thae Agar Jung Mein Arh Jateh Thae
Paon Sheroun Ke Bhi Maidaan Se Ukhar Jateh Thae

We could not be swayed from victory once we engaged ourselves in the battle
Against us! The greatest of the lions (braves) have been seen fleeing for their lives


Tujh Se Sarkash Huwa Koi To Bighar Jateh Thae
Taeg Kya Cheez Hai, Hum Toup Se Larh Jateh Thae

Whom so ever raised mutiny against Allah’s rule, faced our worst wrath
Sword’s nothing, we braved cannonballs on our bare chests for You.

Naqsh Tauheed Ka Har Dil Pe Bithaya Hum Ne
Zaer-e-Khanjar Bhi Yeh Paigham Sunaya Hum Ne

We engraved principles of Tauheed (Oneness of Allah) on every heart, wherever we went
Our lips delivered Allah’s message even when our heads were under the executioner’s axe

Stanza (9)

Tu Hi Keh De Ke Ukhara Dar-e-Khyber Kis Ne
Sheher Qaiser Ka Jo Tha, Us Ko Kiya Sar Kis Ne

(O Lord) promulgate, who overthrew the odds at battle of Khaybar
Who had disgraced Caesars’ pride over his cities and might?


Tore Makhluq Khudawandon Ke Paikar Kis Ne
Kaat Kar Rakh Diye Kuffaar Ke Lashkar Kis Ne

Who smashed to dust the dogmas of the lesser gods on this earth.
Who shred into pieces the mightiest of armies of the non- believers?

Kis Ne Thanda Kiya Atishkuda-e-Iran Ko?
Kis Ne Phir Zinda Kiya Tazkara-e-Yazdaan Ko?

Who had cooled down the fires in the temples of fire worshipping Iran
Who, then promulgated the forgotten fables of One Merciful God (Allah)?




Stanza (10)



Kon Si Qoum Faqat Teri Talabgar Huwi
Aur Tere Liye Zehmat Kash-e-Paikaar Huwi
Who were the people of all the peoples, who only sought You (Allah)
And just for You(Allah), took upon themselve difficulties & hardships.

Kis Ki Shamsheer Jahangeer, Jahandar Huwi
Kis Ki Takbeer Se Dunya Teri Baidar Huwi

Whose sword had become recognized and eminent in the world
Whose war cry was “Allah is the greatest” that awakened the pagan world to your message.

Kis Ki Haibat Se Sanam Sehme Huwe Rehte The
Munh Ke Bal Gir Ke 'HU WA-ALLAH HU AHAD' Kehte The

Whose fear had petrified the followers of lesser gods in their own temples
Out of whose fear of retribution they bowed and uttered “No doubt there’s only one Allah”



Stanza (11)

Aa Gaya Ain Laraai Mein Agar Waqt-e-Namaz
Qibla Ru Ho Ke Zameen Bos Huwi Qoum-e-Hijaz

When time for prayer reached us in midst of a battle
The People of Hijaz ( Mecca & Medina) turned their faces towards Ka’aba (Mecca) & kissed the ground bowing to You (ALLAH)


Ek Hi Saf Mein Khare Ho Gaye Mahmood-o-Ayaz,
No Koi Banda Raha Aur Na Koi Banda Nawaz.
Stood as equal shoulder to shoulder both the king Mehmood (Al Ghazni) and his slave (Malik Ayaz) in the line for prayer
Banishing all differences of rank between a Slave and a Sultan



Banda-o-Sahib-o-Mauhtaaj-o-Ghani Aik Huwe
Teri Sarkar Mein Pohanche To Sabhi Aik Huwe

Slave or master, rich or poor stood as equals (in the prayer lines)
When they reached your audience in prayer, they all humbled as one ordinary



Stanza (12)

Mehfil-e-Kon-o-Makan Mein Sehar-o-Sham Phire
Mai-e-Tauheed Ko Lekar Sifat-e-Jam Phire

We spread out to all corners of the world, without the care for day or night
We carried (the message of) Oneness of Allah as the most precious wine and our bodies became the goblets holding it to the brim


Koh Mein, Dasht Mein Le Kar Tera Pegham Phire
Aur Maaloom Hai Tujh Ko, Kabhi Nakaam Phire !

We took Your message to the valleys far flung and the mountains lofty,
And You know very well, we strove on even when unsuccessful!

Dasht To Dasht Hain, Darya Bhi Na Chhore Hum Ne
Bahr-e-Zulmaat Mein Daura Diye Ghore Hum Ne
Wastelands are wastelands, we didn’t even hesitate the mighty rivers
Angry Euphrates River was trampled upon by yje hooves of our fearless horses.
	



Stanza (13)

Safah-e-Dahar Se Baatil Ko Mitaya Hum Ne
Nau-e-Insaan Ko Ghulami Se Chhuraya Hum Ne

We wiped off the memory of idol worshipping from the books of time
We brought freedom to the mankind from the slavery (of lesser gods)


Tere Kaabe Ko Jabeenon Se Basaya Hum Ne
Tere Quran Ko Seenon Se Lagaya Hum Ne

We brought life back to Mecca by rubbing our foreheads on Ka’aba grounds
We kept Your Quran safe in our hearts and minds


Phir Bhi Hum Se Yeh Gila Hai Ke Wafadar Nahin
Hum Wafadar Nahin, Tu Bhi To Dildar Nahin!

Despite all that You Say we are not Your faithfuls
If we are not faithful, You too Is not an admirer!



Stanza (14)

Ummatain Aur Bhi Hain, In Mein Gunahgar Bhi Hain
Ejz Wale Bhi Hain, Mast-e-Mai-e-Pindar Bhi Hain

There are other peoples of books, they too have sinners amongst them
They also have humbles among them and then there are some who are drunk by the sweet wine of self superiority


In Mein Kahil Bhi Hain, Ghafil Bhi Hain, Hushyar Bhi Hain
Saikron Hain Ke Tere Naam Se Baizar Bhi Hain

They too have idle, ignorant and wise among them
And then there are thousands of those who are bored of Your religion.

Rehmatain Hain Teri Aghiyar Ke Kashaanon Par
Barq Girti Hai To Bechare Musalmanon Par

Your Blessings are being showered on the roofs of the unbelieving clans
If the thunder-bolt strikes, it strikes the humble abodes of the helpless Muslims



Stanza (15)

Boott Sanam Khanon Mein Kehte Hain, Musalman Gye
Hai Khushi In Ko Ke Kaabe Ke Nigehban Gye

Idols are boasting in the temples that the muslims are finished
They are happy that the defenders of Ka’aba are finished



Manzil-e-dehr Se Unthon Ke Hudi Khawan Gye
Apni Baghlon Mein Dabaye Huwe Quran Gye

The hymn‐reciting camel‐riders who reached their destination are finished
Folding Quran under their armpits, they are finished

Khandah Zan Kufr Hai, Ehsas Tujhe Hai Ke Nahin
Apni Touheed Ka Kuch Paas Tujhe Hai Ke Nahin

Pagan belief is rejoicing today, do You(Allah) realize or not
Do You(Allah) have any regard for Your own Tauheed(Message) or not




Stanza (16)

Ye Shikayatt Nahin, Hain Un Ke Khazane Maamur
Nahin Mehfil Mein Jinhain Baat Bhi Karne Ka Shaur

The burden of our sigh is not that their (Non Muslims) coffers are full of treasures
Of those who lack the grace of speech in the highest conclaves(Allah’s court)

Qehar To Ye Hai Ke Kafir Ko Milain Hoor-o-Qasoor
Aur Bechare Musalman Ko Faqat Wada-e-Hoor
Desperation is, that the Non Believers are getting all the comforts and the desirables

And the poor Muslim is left with only an empty promise of a heavenly woman (in hereafter)


Ab Woh Altaf Nahin, Hum Pe Anayat Nahin
Baat Ye Kya Hai Ke Pehli Si Madarat Nahin

Now You don’t show us the kindness of afore times, neither are You Blessful towards us
What is the matter that You are not as hospitable towards us as before



Stanza (17)

Kyun Musalmanon Mein Hai Doulat-e-Dunya Nayaab
Teri Qudrat To Hai Woh Jis Ki Na Had Hai Na Hisab

Why is it that the Muslims are devoid of economic strength
When Your powers are such that they are ever lasting and limitless.

Tu Jo Chahe To Uthe Seena-e-Sehra Se Habab
Rahroo-e-Dasht Ho Seeli Zada Mouj-e-Saraab

If You but will, fountains can flow from barren lands of the parched deserts
every grain of sand turning moist as if a wave has passed over the land


Taan-e-Aghiyaar Hai, Ruswai Hai, Nadaari Hai,
Kya Tere Nam Pe Marne Ka Iwaz Khwari Hai?

Taunted by Non–believers, we are deprived of grace, we are helpless
Is the reward for martyrdom in Your cause, deprivation?



Stanza (18)

Bani Aghyar Ki Ab Chahne Wali Dunya
Reh Gyi Apne Liye Aik Khiyali Dunya

The world has learnt to love the non-believers’ clangs,
The believers are left with only an abstract dream world


Hum To Rukhsat Huwe, Auron Ne Sanbhali Dunya
Phir Na Kehna Huwi Touheed Se Khali Dunya

We are now the past, other nations are holding the helm of the world
Don’t You reproach us why the world has gone empty of Tauheed (oneness of Allah)

Hum Tau Jeete Hain Ke Duniya Mein Tira Naam Rahe,
Kahin Mumkin Hai Saqi Na Rahe, Jaam Rahe?

We live on so to keep Your Name alive
Its not possible to be served wine without a bartender!
(If Muslim Ummah becomes obsolete so would the Faith)



Stanza (19)

Teri Mehfil Bhi Gai, Chahne Walw Bhi Gaye,
Shab Ki Aahen Bhi Gaien, Subah Ke Nale Bhi Gaye,

Gone are Your gatherings, gone are Your worshippers,
Gone are the sighs of the nights, gone are the hymns of the morning

Dil Tujhe Debhi Gaye, Apna Sila Le Bhi Gaye,
Aa Ke Baithe Bhi Na The, Ke Nikaale Bhi Gaye.

We’ve left our hearts at your feet, we’ve gathered our rewards
We had not yet settled properly that we were told to leave


Aae Ushaaq, Gaye Waada-e-Farda Lekar,
Ab Unhen Dhoond Charag-e-Rukh-e-Zeba Lekar!

We came as glad Lovers, we are leaving with just an abstract promise
Now, search for the likes of us holding a lamp with a shining face (Moon)




Stanza (20)

Dard-e-Laila Bhi Wohi, Qais Ka Pahlu Bhi Wohi,
Nejd Ke Dasht-o-Jabal Mein Ram-e-Aahoo Bhi Wohi,

Laila’s pangs for her lost love are the same, Her lover Qaise’s shrouded robes are also the same
The whispers of the songs in the valley and mountains of Najd are the same



Ishq Ka Dil Bhi Wohi, Husn Ka Jaadoo Bhi Wohi,
Ummat-e-Ahmed-e-Mursil Bhi Wohi, Tu Bhi Wohi,
The loving of the heart is the same, the magical effect of beauty is also the same
Ummah of the magnificent Prophet(SAW) is the same, You are also same







Phir Yeh Aazurdagi-e-Ghair-Sabab Kya Maani,
Apne Shaidaaon Pe Yeh Chashm-e-Ghazab Kya Maani?
Why then are you showering your blessings on the other nations
Why have you affixed your wrathful eyes on your devotees only

Stanza (21)

Tujh Ko Chora Ke Rasool-e-Arabi (S.A.W.) Ko Chora?
Boutgari Paisha Kiya, Bout Shikani Ko Chora?

Did we forswear our faith on You? Or ceased to love Your beloved Prophet(SAW)?
Did we adopt idol worshipping, Or ceased idol-Breaking?

Ishq Ko, Ishq Ki Ashuftah-Sari Ko Chora?
Rasm-e-Salman (R.A.)-o-Awais-e-Qarani (R.A.) Ko Chora?

Did we shun Love Or  Love’s fiery nature?
Did we turn away from the path trod by Salman Farsi or Awais Qarni?

Aag Takbeer Ki Seenon Mein Dabi Rakhte Hain
Zindagi Misl-e-Bilal-e-Habshi (R.A.) Rakhte Hain

The flame of Faith still kindles our hearts
We hold Bilal Habshi as an ideal for life





Stanza (22)

Ishq Ki Khair, Who Pehli Si Ada Bhi Na Sahi,
Jaada Paimaai Taslim-o-Raza Bhi Na Sahi,

Agreed that our Love might have lost some of it’s umph with time
Agreed our worships & acceptance of fate might have fluttered a bit


Muztarib Dil Sifat-e-Qibla Nama Bhi Na Sahi
Aur Pabandi-e-Aaeen-e-Wafa Bhi Na Sahi

Agreed Our flustered heart, sometimes looks away from Ka’aba
And sometimes we cannot fully honour our oath to You

Kabhi Hum Se, Kabhi Ghairon Se Shanasaai Hai
Baat Kehne Ki Nahin, Tu Bhi To Harjaai Hai
At times You befriends us and then at other times your friendship is for others
It is sinful to say  this but You are also flirtatious!







Stanza (23)

Sar-e-Faran Pe Kiya Deen Ko Kamil Tu Ne
Ek Ishare Mein Hazaron Ke Liye Dil Tu Ne

Upon the peak of Mount Faran Your perfected Your glorious Faith
With one Divine gesture you captured the hearts of thousands;

Atish Andoz Kiya Ishq Ka Hasil Tu Ne
Phoonk Di Garmi-e-Rukhsar Se Mehfil Tu Ne
(There at Mount Faran) You turned our love for You into a burning Larva
Then you blew that flame in our heart and brought life to our otherwise dead existence



Aaj Kyun Seene Humare Sharar Abad Nahin
Hum Wohi Sokhta Saman Hain, Tuhe Yaad Nahin?

Why today we find our hearts empty from Your love’s fire (warmth)
We are the same tinder wood, but You have forgotten us?




Stanza (24)

Wadi-e-Najd Mein Woh Shor-e-Silasil Na Raha
Qais Diwana-e-Nazara Mehmil Na Raha

The valley of Nejd is devoid of the sound of our metal (army’s) moving
Demented Qais, can no longer witness such sights in the desert

Hosle Woh Na Rahe, Hum Na Rahe, Dil Na Raha
Ghar Ye Ujhra Hai Ke Tu Ronaq-e-Mehfil Na Raha

Our courage is not the same, neither are we, nor  is our heart stronger
Is it really our house that’s abandoned or have You lost Your charms

Ae Khush Aan Roz Ke Ayi-o-Bsad Naz Ayi
Be-Hijabana Soo'ay Mehfil-e-Ma Baaz Ayi

O Day you must be happy, that she comes, and comes obstinate, proud
The mother of the great falcons, is now in midst of the crowd unprotected, unveiled



Stanza (25)

Badahkash Gair Hain Gulshan Mein Lab-e-Joo Baithe
Sunte Hain Jaam Bakaf Naghma-e-Kuku Baithe

The ghostly figures sitting by the fountain in our garden are strangers
I hear they are served wine a plenty, and songs are being sung in their ears.

Door Hungama-e-Gulzar Se Yak Soo Baithe
Tere Diwane Bhi Hain Muntazir 'Hoo' Baithe

Away from the mayhem of the garden, sitting together is a group
They are your Admirers, waiting for you to say “ be (come into being)”


Apne Parwanon Ko Phir Zauq-e-Khud Afrozi De
Barq-e-Dairina Ko Farman-e-Jigar Sozi De

Grant Your Admirer the desire to rise themselves high in status again
Grant Your ancient lightening the power to rekindle the flame of Faith in our hearts again



Stanza (26)

Qoum-e-Awara Anaa Taab Hai Phir Soo'ay Hijaz
Le Ura Bulbul-e-Be Par Ko Mazak-e-Parwaz

This astray nation is ready to repent and follow the ancestors from Hijaz
We are a bulbul whose wings have been clipped, but our determination will teach us to fly again

Muztarib Bagh Ke Har Ghunche Mein Hai Boo'ay Niaz
Tu Zara Chair To De, Tashna-e-Mizrab Hai Saaz

Every bud in this garden hides a restless fragrance of desire
If You but just touch, the instrument is parched to sing out the long awaiting songs



Naghme Betaab Hain Taron Se Niklne Ke Liye
Toor Muztar Hai Ussi Aag Mein Jalne Ke Liye

Songs are restless to be let out of the strings
Mount of Toor is ready to be burnt into ashes again by the same Light



Stanza (27)

Mushkalain Ummat-e-Marhoom Ki Asan Kar De
Moor-e-Bemaya Ko Humdosh-e-Suleman Kar De

We will remain a dead nation till you ease our distress
Make the ungraceful dance of the peacock worthy of Solomon’s songs


Jins-e-Nayaab-e-Mohabbat Ko Phir Arzaan Kar De
Hind Ke Dair Nasheenon Ko Musalman Kar De

Bring You, O Lord, within our grasp that most rare love for which we pray;
Turn the temple‐squatters of Hind  into Muslims.

Joo'ay Khoon Mee Chakad Az Hasrat-e-Dairina-e-Maa
Mee Tapd Nala Ba Nashtar Kadah-e-Seena-e-Maa

My long lost desire is now drenched in the fluids of my bleeding heart
I am raising the complaints because my heart has been pierced a thousand times






Stanza (28)

Boo-e-Gul Le Gyi Bairun-e-Chaman Raaz-e-Chaman
Kya Qayamat Hai Ke Khud Phool Hain Ghammaz-e-Chaman !

The secrets of the garden were stolen by the flowers to be sold in foreign lands
This is no less than the doom’s day in itself, that flowers have betrayed their own garden


Ahd-e-Gul Khatam Hua, Tut Gaya Saaz-e-Chaman,
Ur Gaye Dalion Se Zamzama Pardaaz-e-Chaman.

The oath of the florae is over; the lyre of the garden is broken
Those who sang the songs of the garden perched on the branches, flew away

Ek Bulbul Hai Ke Hai Mahw-e-Tarannum Ab Tak,
Us Ke Seene Mein Hai Naghmon Ka Talatam Ab Tak.

There is a lone Bulbul deeply lost in songs still,
Its heart has a few unsung songs still



Stanza (29)

Qumrian Shaakh-e-Sanober Se Gurezaan Bhi Huin,
Pattian Phool Ki Jhar Jhar Ke Pareshan Bhi Huin;

The soft flowers of sanoobar have long fallen from the branches
Petals bloomed and perished wondering what had happened


Who Purani Ravishen Bagh Ki Weeran Bhi Huin,
Daalian Parahan-e-Barg Se Uriaan Bhi Huin.

The old glorious memories of the garden too have started fading away
The branches are now bare of leaves, flowers or birds

Qaid-e-Mausim Se Tabiat Rahi Aazad Uski,
Kaash Gulshan Mein Samjhta Koi Faryaad Uski.

(The Bulbul) is still singing its song unaware of the changing tides
I wish someone understand, why the bulbul is singing lonely songs




Stanza (30)

Lutf Merne Main Hai Baqi, Na Maza Jeene Mein
Kuch Maza Hai To Yehi Khoon-e-Jigar Peene Mein

There’s no fun dying anymore, nor is life worth living
If there’s any sensation left, it’s the unbearable pain of this desolate heart


Kitne Betaab Hain Jouhar Mere Aaeene Mein
Kis Qadar Jalwe Tarapte Hain Mere Seene Mein

I can still see restless jewels when I reflect in mirror of my soul
There are still so many burning dreams in my heart


Iss Gulistan Mein Magar Dekhne Wale Hi Nahin
Dagh Jo Seene Mein Rakhte Hun, Woh Lale Hi Nahin

There is no one in this meadow, worthy of recognizing my scars
Those brethrens are lost who shared my pain




Stanza (31)

Chaak Iss Bulbul-e-Tanha Ki Nawa Se Dil Hon
Jaagne Wale Issi Bang-e-Dara Se Dil Hon

The lonely songs of the sad Bulbul has cut my heart into shreds
May the sleeping hearts forsake their sleep by the clamor of the distant songs (‘Bang e Darra’ collection of one of Iqbal’s poems)!

Yani Phir Zinda Naye Ehd-e-Wafa Se Dil Hon
Phir Issi Bada-e-Deerina Ke Pyaase Dil Hon

May the hearts are reborn to the Divine oath
May the faithful once again quench their thirst from the Fountain of Faith

Ajami Khum Hai To Kya, Mai To Hijazi Hai Meri
Naghma Hindi Hai To Kya, Lai To Hijazi Hai Meri

So what if my blood is Non- Arab, The wine of Faith flowing in my veins is Hijazi(Madina)
So what if the song is from Sub Continent, the tune of the song is still HijaziEmbed Aas Paas Khuda Anjaana Anjaani Rahat Fateh Ali Khan pop-film