32 ContributorsDa Joint Lyrics[Verse 1: Erick Sermon]
I make a million bucks every six months and y'all
Hating my game, saying my name, they call
Me the E, wrong things, knowing I'm fly without wings
While some of y'all have to pull strings
In this era, I maintain the freak upon the beat
Master basslines of Raphael Saadiq
Lyrical mastermind, a genius so don't snooze
No mission's impossible, ask Tom Cruise
I keep a joint lit when I have to spit
A rough paragraph, laugh, when I'm bustin' your ass
Who want it? Come and see me, like 112
And I'll rock that bell with Fox and L
E-Dub, Mr Excitement, right
The poltergeist of rap so come to the light
Yes, the recipient of this award goes to moi
The best qualified superstar
[Chorus: Erick Sermon (PMD)]
My squad stays on point like
Den en den den de den—it's the joint!
(Yeah my squad stay on point like)
Den en den den de den—it's the joint!

[EPMD (Ad Rock vocal sample)]
New York, I'm in your area (Over here!)
DC, I'm in your area (Over here!)
New Jers, I'm in your area (Over here!)
EPMD is a world premier
You might also like[Verse 2: PMD]
It's the joint, stay on point, plus I'm feelin' it
Niggas killin' shit tryin' to duplicate the manuscripts
That's impossible, pray like the gospel
Overcoming setbacks and jumping over obstacles
Like Evel Knievel, on point like a needle
EPMD's like the Beatles, back with another sequel
To hip-hop, check one two and you don't stop
Rap with mainstream R&B and pop
Now the world's shocked, the E-double's back with Mic-Doc
Like it or not, we ’bout to turn it up another notch
Mach speed, put it down for my seeds
Raw breeds, acres with the deeds, it's the joint
[Chorus: Erick Sermon (PMD)]
My squad stays on point like
Den en den den de den—it's the joint!
(Yeah my squad stay on point like)
Den en den den de den—it's the joint!

[EPMD (Ad Rock vocal sample)]
VA, I'm in your area (Over here!)
DA, I'm in your area (Over here!)
Chi-Town, I'm in your area (Over here!)
EPMD is a world premier
[Verse 3: Erick Sermon]
My style's digable, so I'm phat like that
I got a Benz too and it's black like that
I got millions of chips, and they stack like that
A five year spread and now we back like that
How dare they, niggas sittin' in they room with Brandy
Way pissed off thinkin' how the can't stand me
He robbed Sean for his Penn, talkin'
Not lookin', shooken, a dead man walkin'

[PMD (Erick Sermon)]
You know me, from rippin' flows with my homie
The one and only, Ginuwine like Pony
You wanna ride? Call me up when you're lonely
I'm Parrish Smith, the shit—great like Tony
I'm hittin'-hittin' (Where from?)
From Brentwood to San Quentin
I'ma keep rhymin', still representin' (For who?)
For my niggas up north and in the courts
And for the MCs takin' no shorts, in this blood sport
[Chorus: Erick Sermon (PMD)]
My squad stays on point like
Den en den den de den—it's the joint!
(Yeah my squad stay on point like)
Den en den den de den—it's the joint!
[EPMD (Ad Rock vocal sample)]
Detroit, I'm in your area (Over here!)
Cali, I'm in your area (Over here!)
Philly, I'm in your area (Over here!)
EPMD is a world premier13Embed Da Joint Back In Business EPMD hardcore