14 ContributorsThe Set Up (Remix) Lyrics[Intro - Obie Trice]
Oh oh oh oh oh, Ohhh-miiiiiix (hehehehe)
Detroit nigga!

[Verse 1 - Obie Trice]
"Cheers" the debut, the nigga, the voice, the career, is all new (yup)
You Pepe LePew-ass niggas loved your boo when I thugged her in school (huh)
Made her resort to fuck with niggas like you (hah!)
Me, I gave her obstacle courses
Bust nuts up in that ass, yeah, lots of abortions
You, took it out of proportion
Made the bitch wifey, when you should be plottin divorcin
I put her through the ring, had her wildin' out horse, when
You, bought rings, had her hiding out in Nordstrom (whoo!)
I coach her, help her play her part{whistle}
Catch these bars, you know I play her like a sport (hah!)
Obie is never that nigga paying for that loft
Or payin' the cost for another man to floss (nah!)
I'd rather have my hands on the grands of course
So the plan is creepin' up on your man, pushing The Porsche (what!)

[Chorus - Nate Dogg]
Thick thighs but she full of surprises
I swear this bitch is Shady (that's what I know)
Sex on her mind all the time
And you think that, that's your baby (you don't know)
You a good guy that's living a lie
But she told him where your safe be(Detroit!) (that's what I know)
If you cool and she satisfied {I know +Dat bitch+}
How come that bitch just paged me? (you don't know)
See Obie Trice LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Verse 2 - Redman]
Ey yo, Obie Trice, I know the same bitch (the same bitch)
The bitch with the ear-ring in her clit (Dat Bitch?)
I got photos of her buttnaked
With Manolo's and a pair of handcuffs on her hip (ey yo)
She love coke, doin' lines off my CD (sniff sniff)
She in the bottles like "I Dream Of Genie"
She got a G.E.D. from nightschool
That stands for "Gettin' Errbody Dolla", greeeedy!
I first met her at Magic City, she was gettin' lapdances, and grabbin' titties
When the stripper ain't lookin', she grabbed a $50
Ride out the bitch thong, when the song is on
I'm like: that bitch ain't shit!
She'll put the gun to your balls while swallowing your "kids"
Before you know it, you got robbed
By four fat chicks that kicked in your door while you was tied
That's the game that bitches play
Watch your back while they walkin' your way
You know her, long hair brown skin
Pussy be whippin' niggas like Lady Heroine
You try to get her drunk, she slipped you a Mickey
Now you the next date-rape victim on "Ricky"
Bitch fuck with D, I have her legs "hangin' out the trunk" like the
"Marshall Mathers LP" (yup!)

[Chorus - Nate Dogg]
[Lloyd Banks - Verse 3]
Yeah, Lloyd Banks'll never trust a ho (no)
They'll get you "Set Up" fast, "puttin' your hands in the air" like
Busta's show (yeah)
I got the fame, name, plus the dough
Between your legs and your chin is a few places my nuts'll go (ho!) (hah!)
I'm stubborn in the worst way, so I don't follow up if I don't get the
Pussy the first day (yeah)
Hey, slow down boo, cause' at a G-Unit party
My niggas pattin' the hoes down too (yeah)
They're hungry and they're plannin' to profit
So I get all my hoodrat head with my hand in my pocket (whoo!)
They scheme, but the cannon'll stop it
Thinkin' I'm off point cause I blew about a grand on a chocolate
And even if I'm loose off the liquor (liquor)
I'm reachin', besides everything's bulletproof but my zipper (ziiip! - Obie)
I don't even put my drink down, watch the bitch on your arm
She probably goin' through your mink now (Lloyd Banks nigga! - Obie)

[Chorus - Nate Dogg]

[Jadakiss - Verse 4]
Uh, Yeah, Uh
Yo, when you say "Kiss is the best", you're not hypothetically speakin'
If he don't die, I bet he be leakin' (D-Block!)
And I'm in the zone right now, I think I'm 'bout to finish up my album
By the rest of the weekend (let's go)
It's a dirty game, and rule number one (whoo)
You never spend clean money on a dirty dame (yeah)
Bitches pointing like "Oh, he Kiss!" (uh-huh)
Once they get a whiff of the purple kush or the OG Crip
Got a hazespot with dubs, a whole D strip
I get it for cheap, the 'ricans throw me shit
My nigga listen, it's enough of 'em (uhh)
So you ain't' gotta be runnin' round' here all crazy, lovin' 'em and
Cuffin' 'em (New York)
Just don't add up, (naw)
She just wanna get her hair and nails done, and tear Fifth Ave up (yeah)
She might cop female 'Gators (huh)
Bad thing is the homie gonna spin her like Spreewells later
Now everything is messed up (yeah)
You wanna deck him, and deck her
Should have only used her from the neck up (whoo)
Instead of taking her to shop
Take her scandalous ass to "The Doc", make her get a check up
Now for nothing, you should just stand down
Cause before long, there's gonna be a man down (uh-huh)
But naw, you gave her the world
She gave you a ass to Kiss
And she's still your favorite girl, damn!
[Chorus - Nate Dogg]

[Outro - Obie Trice]
Detroit!
Hahahaha, yeah
213!
Westcoast Connection with Detroit
Detroit Connection, with New York
You can't stop Obie Trice right now. What?
New nigga, new voice, new career, hehe, motherfucker!
Whatchu know about it
Nate Dogg my nigga
WarrenG, my nigga
Jadakiss my nigga
Lloyd Banks my nigga
Hehehe, yeah
Yeah, and I'm on the Boost Mobile with my nigga Reggie Noble nigga
Whachu know about it?3Embed The Setup Cheers Obie Trice hardcore