11 ContributorsTranslationsРусскийSelf Talk Lyrics[Intro, Sample]
I mean I can do anything that he can
I've been pretty...

[Verse, Parker Jack]
Old Parker: Hey, can we talk?

Parker: Na, I don't really wanna talk right now

Old Parker: That's okay, you never really did, I've been
Screaming every day "Please let me out!!"

Parker: Hold up, Let you out? You couldn't protect yourself! I was protecting you
Old Parker: You were protecting me?!
Parker: Yes protecting you, everybody in this world was rejecting you, nobody out here could accept you

Old Parker: No, everyone could, except you. That's the problem that you have man, you build walls up and hid behind the shame and I guess that I'm partially to blame, I don't know what to say

Parker: Don't explain! You're making no sense to me, it kind of all just sounds like a guess to me...

Old Parker: Bro, your trauma made me just a memory, ain't nobody in this world remembers me

Parker: So you wanted them to hurt you?

Old Parker: Man that's not what I'm saying...
You might also likeParker: Well you basically are every time that you told me I took it too far, and your ex left you cause you're way too emotional

Old Parker: Man I did what I was supposed to do

Parker: No you didn't! The world made you hit your limit, and then I got distant. That's what I'm tryna tell you but you just won't listen

Old Parker: What I'm tryna tell you is we're both broken, My heart's open, yours is closing

Parker: I don't give a damn if my heart is frozen!

Old Parker: You don't wanna be yourself?

Parker: I had to free myself because it just kept happening!

Old Parker: Go see a therapist instead of just rappening, or it'll just keep happening!

Parker: You don't think I ever get tired of maskin' it?!

Old Parker: I don't care if you do cause the more that you are
Mean the more that I'm vanishing, and I really just want myself back again

[Outro, Sample]
I know you so well, so good
I mean I can do anything that he can
I've been pretty...Embed Self Talk Self Talk Parker Jack sad