1 ContributorMy Rap game Strong LyricsDaniels verse: aye yo school is stupid, i'm talkin bout it ain't fun, but which one, oh yeah none of um. these greenwich kids they get me so mad, fuck all em bitch ass niggas, oh shit never mind they ain't no niggas in greenwich, they some white pussy ass bitches who get whatever the fuck they want. i'm talkin they rich i mean really rich, they got they hats on over they eyes like what is u blind. They dress like they at church , like bitch are we in a church. walkin and talkin all this smack then u hit em and they step back. All these marijuana smokers think they cool but the funny thing is they some fools. Cuz erybody know greenwich is wack it's almost as wack ass hack-a-shaq. oh and speakin uh basketball have u seen the ppl on the teams. They ain’t no black kids anywhere to be seen. Greenwich is stupid these niggas talkin oh I need a motha fuckin quarter for the pencil U broke. U lil bitch ass niggas does it look like imma bout tuh give yall my damn money foe uh motha fuckin PENCIL. ahh hell nah yall bum ass niggas could go getcho fat asses up and go to a motha fuckin staples and get yo ass one of them shits. Nigga I made my point i'm out
Daniels second verse: yo, my rap game strong ppl be hatin but i know i ain't wrong. I can't stop this intensity it is catchin up to me. I can't stop rappin and slappin niggas till they dead. Till they roll up in they 64 guns blazin out here on the streets. fuck em all cuz i beats my meats. Yo my girl she on fleak but she ain't take flight. Birds they ain't on fleak but they take flight. Thats the difference from chicken and gravy you can't have one without the other, and just go ahead and tell ya brother that came outcha motha. yo my rap game is ill but i dont have a girl named jill




Brendan's verse:
Bitches in my town be like im so poor then they hop in the porsh They stupid as fuck doing dumm shit thinking they slcik then she gona say lets get wit for the hella it Ima slap that bitch cuz fuck   u ain't shit and u need a breth mint cuz u just got dissed by a crazy bitch who knowes u ain't nothing more then a skank  who swipes daddys credit card u need to mary a rich man to get his dough then hop out the dor  cuz we all no u ain't going no where other then in ur friends brothers wite van to lick tip cuz you on some crazy ass shit that yo momma slipt in yo drink cuz she sick of u ugly ass bitch messing up all her shit cuz u still a dumm ass so  go live  in a ditch or go home to ur fatt nigga and suck his lil dick cuz we all no y u doing it so u can make ur money out of it then say u love him then straight up dump him. wel shit u come do that to me ur gonna live in a box and eat some grade f shit nuddles i got free from the boss and u can't suck my dick cuz ur a sloth and need some dentil floss

Gabes verse:  Check it, mothaphuckas be bitching about how i sent a pic to girl, FUCK THAT MY NIGGA, Bruh when i see mr shukie i should slap the shit outta him i come to him like i'm the grim and his new name should be jim. i really don't know what i'm saying but i can go super saiyan. knahfeel me, i turn my hair all yellow and be all mellow cuz i ain't so hot and everytime i tie my shoe it gets into a not. everytime i shoot a bball i don't like a bank shot.  i rap like i'm deep in my thought. my raps are ill every time i get a girl named jill but she ain't chill, she treats me like ike from mike and ike. and she don't feel no sympathy bcause her heart is insufficiently and she need more sexual activity. she says i need to be more active, but she really is unattractive and hyperactive and she really gotta use that proactive. im about to lose it, bout to go crazy like a banana split. Im bout to throw a fit at the liberty chit. my girl has a blue tit. she betta get a tool kit. bcause she really gotta fix that tit. im out

GABES VERSE:Nothing to lose? No nothing to gain when i come for u i'm bringing pain, it's not the same going back and forth constantly battling, i can't believe it, choke em till they can't fucking breathe and demons inside me cannot see,it cannot breathe help it, it is struggling set if free watch it take control of me as i'm killing these killers show them i'm the monster that they spoke in legends,  so u better run, you better get to stepping before i come through snapping fucking necks constantly raining this terror down standing tall like a pharaoh now or a king chopping heads off and i know i can't stop won't stop stop this body dropping until the day i lay inside my coffin, it's like i lost it when i lost myself (yeah) rest in peace? (uh) no be deceased yes in fact u can just rot in hail


Alex verse:
It’s the principle son, it’s either all or none. Brothers out here homeless, whites kid having all of the fun. But I’m not done. I ain’t done with my flow yet. I got more to say, and thats a fucking threat. Kids ain’t care about a brother, ain’t it so damn sad? It's the fact that they have it all that makes me so damn mad. Put me on the cross, and nail my hands. Just while I’m on the cross, let me have my demands. It's the rap game, that's what I’m all about. Blew the flame and I ain’t even burned out. What you get, it what you see. Don’t mess with someone like me, cause my rhymes runnin like a slave being set free. People treatin me like I ain’t got no sense. But that shit wack, and I do take offense. There is no defense againsts the dents Avridor A7's commencing and I can feel you mothing fucking ass tension. Nigga. I’m outYou might also likeEmbed