2 ContributorsFuck A Title LyricsFuck a title I'm just a fucking writer
Got a fat spliff, let me get me ma lighter
Let me make this beat a little bit hyper
That was just a fucking side note coz like

Melodies sending me remedies
Hell of friends have transformed to them frenemies
Beatles my bro, let it be
Got a fat spliff manna roll with the Hennessy

Cy, the beat rapist
Fuck the beat-up yeah!
Bend her over, it's a felony
Sucking on her breast
Call her Melon-ie
Got them bad habits, it's a tendency
When in peace, sipping whiskey from Tennessee

Maaz belling me, sending me melodies, mad energy
No questions, don't question me, when in me, let me be
Let me take my time and rise up to the melody
If this beat is bread, I Just add a little sesame
Cyrus the Great is written in my destiny
Maaz my bro, what you telling me?

Don't call me if you ain't talent
Black belvedere, yeah we sipping on chalice
We be getting dough, we be getting that money
Turn a sweet one, into bugs bunny
I say call a couple demons if you want war
Cyrus is illest, man, say it from the core
Fuck the feds bro, fuck a detour
Wave a red flag, if you want more. yeah!
You might also likeI'm the illest, I'm the illest, dawg!
I'm the illest, I'm the illest, dawg!
I'm the illest, I'm the illest, dawg!
I'm the illest, I'm the illest, yah!

Look I know people deep down
Skull and them bones
They said to leave the hood
They ain't never coming home
They said I wouldn't make it
Coz he never reached the throne
I said I'm sorry Cyrus if I ever did you wrong

Man I gotta chase my dream you were making a scene
I doubted you Cy but you weren't listening to me
The back and forth thoughts was getting in between
But you made it on your ones like a one-man team

Fuck a fine wine, if we all grind, we all shine
No need for jealousy coz I take what I call mine. yeah!
Bars coming like way to heaven
Bars smacking like chalk, a lesson and I'm lucky like the
Number seven, number seven, dawg!
Number seven, number seven, dawg!
Number seven, number seven, dawg!
Number seven, number seven, yah!
Fuck a title, I'm just a fucking writer!
Fuck a title, I'm just a fucking writer!
Fuck a title, I'm just a fucking writer
Got a fat spliff, let me get me ma lighter

Bro! you man gotta run until you get to me!
It's levels to this shit! bitch!
Wait! did I say run into me? or run until you get to me?
Either way, you won't get to me, even if you run you won't get to me! bitches!

I'm next level! bitch!2Embed