4 ContributorsMan Down Lyrics[Intro]
(MIA JAY C)
Huh? Huh?
(Hope them niggas drown)
Niggas always playin' with that— (Man, I hope them niggas drown)
Hah, ayy (Drown)
Huh? (Drown)

[Chorus]
Niggas always playin' with that water 'til they drown (Huh, huh)
Every time I go out of town, man down (Man drowned)
They said I did that, but I was not around (Man drowned)
He caught a bullet to the head, now he on the ground (Man, I hope them bitches drown)
How the fuck these niggas think they 'bout to beef with money? (Man drowned)
Striker with the tinted windows, they ain't see me comin' (Man, I hope them niggas drown)
They really think I'm just a rapper, they don't think I'm thuggin' (Drown)
Two hundred shots on me every day, pop his ass in public (Hope thеm niggas drown)

[Verse 1]
I call me four-five Denvеr, hit him in the nugget
We seen the hook when we pulled up, Meek like, "Fuck it" (Fuck it)
My nigga rob, that's his hustle, I'll never judge him
I know I can lose it all, I seen the richest nigga fumble (Hope them niggas drown)
Came a long fuckin' way from down on my knuckles (Hope them niggas drown)
Million dollars in my bank account, ain't gon' take it out (Huh?)
Could've went the safer route, but I went the paper route (Huh?)
My lil' nigga, he a demon, he'll knock an angel out (Drown)
You might also like[Chorus]
Ayy, niggas always playin' with that water 'til they drown (Hope them niggas drown)
Every time I go out of town, man down (Hope them niggas drown)
They said I did that, but I was not around (Man, I hope them niggas drown)
He caught a bullet to the head, now he on the ground (Drown)
How the fuck these niggas think they 'bout to beef with money? (Huh? Drown)
Striker with the tinted windows, they ain't see me comin' (Huh? Huh?)
They really think I'm just a rapper, they don't think I'm thuggin' (Huh?)
Two hundred shots on me every day, pop his ass in public

[Verse 2]
I'm in Truth throwin' money, I got Slim with me
I make everybody pick they side, him or me (Drown)
Everybody cappin' in the city, shit be killin' me
I don't go to sleep, nightmares of niggas killin' me (Man, I hope them niggas drown)
I think I hit her friend, she say she ain't feelin' me (Niggas drown)
Baby, just want some pussy, it ain't hard to deal with me (Niggas drown)
Put some money on his head, but they'll kill for free (Hope them niggas drown)
Pop him in the head, when he dead, send that bill to me (Niggas drown)
Huh (Man, I hope them niggas drown)
I got shot, still havin' PTSD (Drown)
Lil' Jayla on the phone tryna stress me (Man, I hope them niggas drown)
When my shirt off, baby say I'm sexy (Niggas drown)

[Chorus]
Niggas always playin' with that water 'til they drown (Hmm, drown)
Every time I go out of town, man down (Man, I hope them niggas drown)
They said I did that, but I was not around (Man, I hope them niggas drown)
He caught a bullet to the head, now he on the ground (Drown)
How the fuck these niggas think they 'bout to beef with money? (Man, I hope them niggas drown)
Striker with the tinted windows, they ain't see me comin' (Hope them niggas drown)
They really think I'm just a rapper, they don't think I'm thuggin' (Man, I hope them niggas drown)
Two hundred shots on me every day, pop his ass in publicEmbed