1 ContributorART GARFUNKEL LyricsART GARFUNKEL BY MARC DEGENS

TRANSLATED FROM THE GERMAN BY VALENTINE A. PAKIS

FOR A.G.

I’m looking out the window.
The lake extends to the horizon like an endless sea.
The street narrows and parts the water.
I see a large industrial complex and, behind that, Hamilton, Steel City.
In St. Catharines the bus comes to stop.
A few passengers get off and then we travel on.
An arrow points to the Fallsview Casino Resort.
We stop at a bus station and the bus driver reaches for her microphone.
This is the last stop before the casino, she explains, and now every passenger under nineteen has to exit.
The bus empties out a bit and we continue on our way.
I see the towers of the hotel and a Ferris wheel, spinning slowly.
The sun is shining and the bus driver makes another announcement.
Whoever shows an I.D. when exiting the bus will receive a voucher worth fifteen dollars.
We drive past the Niagara Falls and stop at the rear entrance of the casino.
As I get off the bus I show a woman my I.D. and, for doing so, receive a blue plastic card.
To the left, golden doors lead into the casino; I take a right toward the gate into the park.
A red-plumed bird is sitting in a tree.
There are only a few people in the park.
The waterfall steams and seagulls circle over the abyss.
Speakers are playing rock music.
It Must Have Been Love.
Roxette.
I look over at the bus station, the Table Rock Center, and the long promenade that leads from the Canadian to the American side of the falls.
A squirrel leaps to the ground and comes toward me.
Behind me loom the hotel towers, one looking like a black-and-white torch.
I leave the park, go into the Casino Resort, and take the escalator to the upper floor.
In the display case in front of the theater there is a poster for a concert.
An Intimate Evening with Art Garfunkel.
A bird flies down the hall and a store sells Christmas products throughout the entire year.
I walk through the corridor and exit into the open air, cross a large, empty intersection and the hotel parking lot.
One of counters is free in the lobby.
The woman there gives me my room key and I take the elevator to the fifth floor.
From the balcony of my room I have a view of the Skylon Tower and the Imax Theater.
I take the book out of my backpack and lie down on the bed.
The Poetry and Life of Allen Ginsberg.
By Edward Sanders.
Hearing the cries of seagulls and the cars on the street, I begin to read.
Consulting I Ching Smoking Pot Listening to the Fugs Sing Blake.
I get up, pack the book into my backpack, and leave the room.
Through long hallways and a stairwell I manage to reach the back of the hotel.
I walk to the Fine German Restaurant on the other side of the street.
The doors of the restaurant are locked and a sign is hanging in front of the entrance.
I walk back to the intersection and go to Tim Hortons.
Five women are standing behind the counter and talking.
A man with a colorful superhero tattoo on his forearm is sweeping the room.
I eat the same thing that I had for lunch, leave the place, and walk across the intersection to the casino.
In front of the main entrance there are black stretch limousines and neon signs advertising upcoming concerts.
The Temptations.
Earth, Wind & Fire.
Blood, Sweat & Tears.
I walk through a revolving door and find myself in an atrium full of sculptures, illuminated with blue light beneath a domed vault of gold and glass.
There are hallways into the hotel, into shopping centers, into the parking lot, or into the casino.
I walk past a twenty-four-hour coffee shop to the Avalon Ballroom.
A seating plan is hanging on the wall in front of the concert hall.
I walk over to the doorman and show him my ticket.
He scans it and gives it back to me.
A second doorman stops me and asks to look in my backpack.
Any alcohol, he asks.
I shake my head and am allowed to go through.
The walls next to the restrooms are adorned with pictures of the stars who have performed there.
More and more people flood into the theater.
They arrive with gold jewelry, white sneakers, or on crutches.
I see shorts, vests, purple leather jackets, a shopping bag from Pepper Palace, and I enter the theater.
In the middle of the stage there are two barstools.
A table, covered with a black tablecloth, stands between them with a glass on top of it.
I sit down next to a woman in a mini-skirt with beige high heels, turquoise toenails, a blond perm, and sun-tanned skin.
Giant screens on and around the stage play advertisements for upcoming concerts.
Engelbert Humperdinck.
Chubby Checker.
Al Bano and Romina Power.
A woman with silver hair sits down in the empty seat next to me.
Her leg is trembling.
A man and a woman hug one another and take a selfie.
The woman’s son takes the seat next to her.
Not as close as last time, the son says quietly to his mother.
Every last seat of the hall fills up.
The lights turn down.
A man with an acoustic guitar takes the stage and the crowd applauds.
The man goes to center stage, sits on one of the two barstools, and begins to play.
Art Garfunkel’s voice can be heard from backstage.
Two women stand up and clap.
Art Garfunkel appears from behind the curtain, singing with a microphone in his hand.
He is wearing sneakers, jeans, a white shirt, and he walks to the center of the stage.
After the song, Art Garfunkel takes a bow and tells the audience that he had lost his voice a few years ago.
My voice is back, he announces laughingly, and begins to sing.
I am just a poor boy.
The two women next to me sing along quietly.
Lie la lie.
Art Garfunkel praises the venue and its great acoustics.
He then raves about Carnegie Hall and announces another song by Paul Simon.
The son wraps his arm around his mother.
He has recently signed a book contract, says Art Garfunkel, he’s writing his memoires and would now like to read a few passages from them.
Art Garfunkel puts on his glasses and takes an envelope, with upright lettering, off of the table.
The screens above him show a close-up of his face.
Art Garfunkel begins to read, a golden ring shimmering on his hand.
He removes his glasses and sings A Poem on the Underground Wall, Homeward Bound, and Perfect Moment.
He loves the simple things, claims Art Garfunkel after the songs, then takes another hand-written envelope off of the table and reads aloud.
Art Garfunkel sings April Come She Will.
The woman in the mini-skirt hums quietly along.
It seems like yesterday, explains Art Garfunkel, when he was with Paul Simon in the studio and recorded the song.
He sings and the woman in the mini-skirt sighs loudly.
Are you going to Scarborough Fair?
Both of the women next to me sing along.
I find myself in a red-velvet church during mass.
Parsley, sage, rosemary, and thyme.
Art Garfunkel picks up the next envelope and reads a story about his father.
Then Art Garfunkel’s son joins him onstage.
He is wearing a baseball hat, a beard, and a black suit.
Art Garfunkel steps to the side of the stage and his son sings Smile.
Then they join arms and sing a song together by the Everly Brothers.
Let it be me.
Art Garfunkel’s son sings another song and leaves the stage.
A few months ago a TV crew was at his home, Art Garfunkel relates, in order to shoot a documentary about him.
He takes a new envelope off of the table and reads from it.
Then he sings a song by Randy Newman and takes a bow.
I love Paul Simon, announces Art Garfunkel, Paul Simon is his friend and has enriched his life.
We shouldn’t believe everything that’s in the newspapers, which only want to sell more copies.
I would like to go on tour with Paul again, he says with a laugh; tell him that.
Art Garfunkel sings on.
Hello, darkness, my old friend.
People are whispering along beside me.
A hammering beat from the band sounds out from the speakers, and I feel as though I’m on the inside of a ship.
Sound of Silence.
S.O.S.
The song comes to an end and the beat falls silent.
Art Garfunkel sings on.
When you’re weary, feeling small.
The entire row behind me sings along.
Like a bridge over troubled water.
Art Garfunkel and his guitarist leave the stage and the people clap.
They come back as three.
Art Garfunkel and his son sing a song together by the Everly Brothers.
The three wave and disappear behind the curtain.
The people clap and the lights come on, the people stand up and walk toward the exit.
I leave the concert hall, exit the theater, take the escalator downstairs, and go to the park.
The night is black and full of lights.
The Ferris wheel spins and is glowing in white.
I look over at the colorfully illuminated falls and at the purple-lighted Skylon Tower, on which a glass elevator is gliding up and down.
I think about horseshoes and about the German word Hufeisen as I go back into the Casino Resort.
Next to the Tim Hortons a couple is standing and eating.
Only a few tables are occupied in the food court, and music is coming out of the speakers.
I take the escalator upstairs and go down the hallway to a sculpture beneath the glass dome.
The women are wearing mini-skirts and the men baseball caps.
I walk to the entrance of the casino and a guard fastens a purple band to my backpack.
There is a line of people waiting to register to get in.
I stand in line, show someone my I.D., and give him the blue card from the bus.
I have to punch a four-digit code into a keypad and then decide whether I would like to receive future email notices from the casino.
The man returns the card to me with my name along with a voucher.
If I would like to spend more money on gambling, he explains, I should insert cash directly into the machines.
I go over to the bar and take a seat.
The gigantic monitors behind the counter are playing sports and advertisements.
Three of them are showing hockey games, one of them curling.
A couple sits down next to me.
She orders a glass of white wine, he a beer.
The woman swipes her blue card at the bar and taps on the screen.
I hear music, the clangor of devices, sirens, whistles, and screams.
Everything’s a big mash-up.
A cacophony of disjointed noises, as though someone had overlapped a number of different soundtracks.
Everything is lit up and blinking.
The ceiling is covered with dozens of cameras enclosed in black spheres, one after another.
Women lean on chairs and watch their husbands gamble, mothers their daughters.
Loud cheers erupt.
A man is playing two machines at the same time, one with each hand.
Four people sit next to each other in airplane seats and play The Walking Dead on the screens in front of them.
Female security guards in brown shirts pace down the aisles.
A woman, holding a bundle of cash and talking on the phone, walks in my direction.
I take a seat at an available machine and swipe my plastic card.
I play Sevens and then, at another machine, Hells Bells.
I gamble away the voucher, walk on, and cross through the hall of slot machines.
In another area, people are playing baccarat.
Three gum-chewing guys in hoodies and baseball hats go past me.
The tables are crowded.
Screens hang above the tables and the players are taking notes.
Men are cheering – yelling Yes! Yes! Yes! – and clapping their hands.
At other tables, pai gow is being played with dominoes and dice.
A live band goes on next to the poker room.
They play Living on a Prayer.
Poker games are being dealt all around, a man goes all in and stands up.
The band plays its last song.
Fight for Your Right to Party.
See you tomorrow, says the singer, bowing out to the audience, and the dance floor empties.
The dealers change at the poker tables and I walk back to the entrance.
A blond woman in floral-patterned overalls is leaning against the wall.
It’s two in the morning and as many people are coming into the casino as are leaving it.
The woman in the flowery overalls falls to the floor.
A man and a woman help her up and support her.
Followed by two female security guards, they bring her to an unoccupied chair.
The woman in the overalls laughs.
I go to the restroom.
Men are standing in front of the urinals and the speakers in the ceiling are playing Tracy Chapman.
I enter an empty stall and open my backpack.
Talkin’ Bout a Revolution.

Marc Degens is a writer and author of four novels. He currently lives in Toronto, Canada. marcdegens.tumblr.com1Embed The Excavator Song Blippi Tunes, Vol. 2: Machines (Music for Toddlers) Blippi children