2 ContributorsGeechi Gotti vs. Tech 9 Lyrics[Round 1: Geechi Gotti]
T.E.C.H.N.I.N.E
This motherfucker look like Wayne Brady
Nigga you's a bitch!
What you gon' say? "Oh, Gotti went to jail for a month, how'd he get out so quick?"
Nigga, if that's ya angle, you better dump that shit
Paper work, public info, you can go to the court and run my shit
The only thing I'm tellin'...is ya mama how to suck my dick
This nigga pussy, the respect gon'
The chopper have ya neck gon'
I stopped watchin' Champion, cause a Rest In Peace shirt the only thing I'm tryin' to see Tech on
You dead wrong, claimin' that you one of the greats
I'll put a gun in ya face, extendo
Clear 30, this ain't up for debate
You know what I hate?
Old ass niggas like you livin' off ya past battles
When your resume full of trash battles
Every round is jokes and more jokes
Niggas be watchin', just waitin' to see a punch like Math battles
I'm goin' hard all year I can't take it easy on these haters
Head shot, when he wake up all he remember was, "You have what it takes. You can make it. You in the world's most respec-"
The doctor's be soundin' like Beasley on the trailers
These niggas is fakers
I was known for Crippin' way befo' I was known for rappin'
So keep calm befo' it's ya dome I'm tappin'
Think R Streetz, if I pull it out, little nigga fo' sho' I'm clappin'
BAOW, Top, left of you hangin' on stage...real niggas know what happened
You don't rap like that, nigga fo' sho' I'm clappin'
Fuck a Tech 9, in battle rap you gon' stay wack
In the streets we use Rugers and Glocks
The only nigga usin' a Tec-9? JayBlac
Nigga straight facts
I stay strapped, bullets flyin', nigga you the victim
You gon' have to get Tech support; the computer trippin'
You a stupid nigga
You said I reuse bars, you know how stupid you sound?
Matter of fact, this the same can' I killed Ave wit'
BAOW, now that's how you recycle a round
Bitch you's a clown and ya mom's a silly ho
I'll fuck her in front of the microwave on camera, and let JayBlac do a reaction video
I'm disrespectful, I hope your baby mama get breast cancer while your baby gettin' breastfed
Before yo' granny die, I wanna be the nigga to pull up and take a piss on her deathbed
This nigga Tech dead, nigga you in my buildin', you can really lose ya life in
I hope you strapped, just know I got mines in
I'll kill you and that faggot ass light skinned hype man
And aim that shit at Smack like, "Nigga is you good? Well aight then."
I'm on one, kill mode just gotta make sure there ain't no witness lookin'
Cause I ain't tryin' to get caught, end up in that central booking
So I'm sneakin' with the biscuit, like my granny told me I couldn't eat til she finished cookin'
This nigga wussin', I don't listen when Tech speak
You lookin' at a pure shooter, just peep the technique
I can go over the top like a dramatic bitch or pull it behind ya back on some scandalous shit
Goddamn I'm sick
I'll let the .40 blam this bitch
I ain't never pressed for these weak hoes
Nina wit' me, I was lettin' mil's (Mill's) off befo' they freed Meek though
The heat low, the gun look fake but it ain't
Silly nigga, code word: Nicki Minaj
(What that mean?!)
This bitch plastic but(t) it'll drop a Philly nigga
Really nigga, I'm a street nigga, you the rapper
I'll shake ya hand before the battle then shoot him after
Ruger clapper
Stand over the body and put three in his face
Y'all gon' see this bitch get dumped over Tech (texts) like, "I think I just need some space."
You can plead ya case but I'ma keep shootin' G
This muhfucka fully automatic so I can let this bitch off easy
Like, "Baby it's not you it's me."
Who is he? It don't matter they all look the same after the trigger squeeze
We got nine's, .44's, and .45's, I'm puttin' everything on Tech like my Twitter feed
And when it's real, y'all can tell, y'all can see it in they eyes
Go 'head see if you can make them niggas believe them lies
Nigga time
You might also like[Round 1: Tech 9]
Can you hear me? Well aight then
You good ? Well aight then
They don' brought a nigga all the way from the east coast to battle a nigga on the west coast
And he's dope
I'm thinkin' Snoop, Dre, Chronic album, nothin' but weed smoke
Game, Nipsey, Kendrick, Eazy-E
Low riders, D.O.C., loc
Instead they got me battlin' Ray Swag and we all know that he choke
Bitch cut all this tough talk, don't be the one mark
He said, "I'm so used to the shot I just gotta hear it and I can tell what it is by the gun spark."
Nigga you dumb smart
A west coast nigga with gun smarts
But ya son in school gettin' asked, "What's 2 + 2?" Fuck he in class puttin' up 1 fo'?
But then again that's 1 fo'
14 shots to the body that's one fo'
I took the .44 off Hova now that got me with one fo'
Look at punk ass Geechi and his family with all these fem' gestures
Should I chin check him or bench press him?
Silencer over the silencer so you ain't gon' be able to call a shot all you gon' feel is the wind pressure
You on Twitter sayin' 9's known for jammin' tryin' to put the shame on niggas
Old school so when you said, "the 9's jam" I was like, "Yeah NBA Jam they bang on niggas."
Told y'all in 2012, Bill Collector, they bang on niggas
Reverse that to collect a bill I bang on
I wanna see you die in the worst way
Funeral, hearse 'play
After I kill you I can't stop, I kill ya family dirty on Thursday
Slit ya mother throat, drown your grandmother on her church day
Walk in ya kid's school and let it sing, I'm tryin' to celebrate they birthday
Two pistols, to keep 'em quiet I got two tennis balls on the end like a cripple I'm usin' a walker
If I don't slow it down or translate it, two racks, you tennis ball I don't do drive bys I'm usually the walker
And take it a step further, I'm tryin' to keep it non violent
But if granny keep hollerin' she gon' force the blunt force trauma and
Weapon of choice I'm usin' her walker
I can never die if you kill me it's Night King now I'm fused with The Walkers
I can't stand ya creep ass
Botox, fake bitch I see past ya cheap ass
Cocaine cartel I seek cash
Punchin' others faster than a Mayweather speed bag
D.A. rush in? I'm hidin' in the bathroom wall like Miguel Rodriguez
You on Twitter committing foul actions
I'll let the cal' blast him
If he don't die durin' the ambulance ride, then somethin' gon' go wrong at the hospital like a malpractice
Who gon' ride?
Turn this into a huntin' game, I pick you to die
Road kill, you jumped in front of that car that's deer suicide
Light the crib up, everybody in that bitch get crucified
The Uzi connected to a string, the string hangin' around my neck
I'm a Champion, we got a suit and tie
Niggas is pussy, online eatin' gangsta cookies
But soon as you try to take them to school they play hookie
I play the N.E.R.D.s this shit can get for real (Pharrell) if you push me
It force me to bring the A.R. in the building like a white boy that's bein' bullied
You good with words Gotti, I let a cap spray
Plus I can handle a Verb better than Pat Stay
O.B.C. how about I say I catch you early like a matinee?
No, I don't even hop out the car
I shoot through the window, bangin' the hand off the steering wheel like I'm havin' bad day
Shut the fuck up! Pull that lil' deuce deuce, go 'head buck up
You aimin' it wrong
A false move and ya luck up
I'm sick of you pussy ass niggas actin' tough tough
I'm from Philly, ain't no Bloods and Crips but the wrong jersey will get you fucked up
What is it? Gangsta gally? You the Cali king? They got your pictures on fliers?
I guess it's easy to be the Cali king when your only competition is Danny Myers
The sad part? You couldn't even handle Myers
Metal with the grip with the rubber on hand like a pair of pliers
Round one
[Round Two: Geechi Gotti]
Aye I apologize for the contract. He gotta rap too it ain't my fault. He gotta rap

Serious question my nigga, this is somethin' I've been contemplatin'
Battle rap Mount Rushmore, how come you ain't never in that conversation?
But niggas be thinkin' about the greats like Mook, Lux, Ars', Hollow, how come they ain't never mention your name?
Cause you a bum, you couldn't cover them spots if you was-
Man you act would go to somethin'
If this was basketball you wouldn't be MJ, Kobe, Lebron or even Duncan
More like AC Green
(Why's that?)
You really known for fuckin' nothin'
Stop fuckin' frontin', talkin' 'bout you the king of Philly
You ain't Gilly, you ain't AR Ave
You ain't Kaboom, you ain't Reed, you ain't Meek or Cass'
When niggas think about the top niggas in Philly ain't nobody gon' say yo' ass
And durin' this ass whoopin' ain't nobody gon' save yo' ass
You ain't had a hot bar ever, you lucky they even paid yo' ass
Pinocchio, this Geppetto, this the nigga that made yo' ass
We know you wasn't runnin' no trap, you barely gettin' money from rap
Talkin' 'bout, "I be bustin' those dope moves"
Nigga you wouldn't be Fresh if it wasn't for Smack
Now here goes some facts
You all jokes, no bars
So as for substance, as the crowd can see it really ain't much
You perform good as a muhfucka, but you don't be talkin' 'bout shit, like you don't really say much
That's why it makes sense why ya name Tech 9 (N9ne), cause I can see the holes in ya makeup (make up)
W-w-why you gotta rap like that?
Y-y-you should fuckin' chill
Til you get pistol whipped and forget ya shit, nigga now you gotta stutter for real
What the fuck is the deal?
I've been to jail and I've been to college
See both situations, only my mama put money on them books
So don't judge a book cause it ain't all what it seems
Cause I done know niggas who got shot and niggas with degrees
See I could've got life or I coulda been a lawyer
Bro, I swear to God I'm a criminal who actually played both sides of the fence
You wouldn't find a fairer con (Farrakhan)
Ain't you a Muslim, right?
Ain't ya name Hakeem?
See you don't really want beef
I can give you plenty reasons why
Hakeem you should've never took this so who ever allowed you on (Olajuwon) see you die
Rockets shit, Nina out, small talk, I'm just poppin' shit
You see these Glocks and shit?
Extendos lookin' like moppin' sticks
On Compton Crip a head shot will have stitches laced to the top like boxin' kicks
[?] don't dap me nigga I'll pull up on a bitch who had you and get nasty wit' her
Meanin' I'll put a Tech 9 in ya mama and disappear, same way your daddy did
All you rap is filler, Jerry killed you and he wasn't even at his best nigga
Now you got Gotti, this ain't ya first time dyin' to a west (Wess) nigga
I stretch niggas, I done laid plenty to rest
This a new era, I don't give a fuck about any of the vets
Especially you, more known for ya talkin' then ya ballin', you Kenny "The Jet"
Head shot after head shot, that's what I'm finna do
They gon' fine ya body laid out in the street after I'm done killin' you
Coroners ain't even want to pick cuz up, so Tech (texts) was left on scene like when a bitch ain't feelin' you
I'm from Nutty Blocc I don't give a fuck where your peoples from
I'm a Packer's fan so I really didn't a fuck when the Eagles won
I want all the smoke, nigga Cheech & Chong
I hope you got a strap cause in Cali, you better keep you one
I told Beasley I wanted a Math problem but he gave me this cheap old bum
So I'ma put this nine over 9 and see if it can equal one
Knock him down and stand over the body and let the tool squirt
Two shots, baow, baow, tell Mama Tech her baby dead yeah the truth hurts
Another shot, BA-...aw this bitch jammed
Oh well I didn't need the third round; I'm Tsu Surf
DNA: Bodybag
Goodz: Bodybag
That nigga Bill Collector put your body bag in a body bag
You done been killed a gang of times before you even met me
They done ran out of body bags, after this we just gon' put him in a Hefty
And when it's real, y'all can tell, y'all can see it in they eyes
Your turn, see if you can make them niggas believe them lies
[Round 2: Tech 9]
So you really gon' shoot my mother while she warmin' up some peas and shit?
And y'all really believe that shit?
Bay Loc, the Compton Crip that be squeezin' shit
I got rights so it's best if I just plead the fifth
And say nothin', cause if I do I'ma squeeze the clip
You from Nutty Blocc
Me? I'm from the other block
Strapped down, dump and peel, that the nutty block
If we don't catch you on the first go round, we send another shot
Then spin another block
Gotti don't know where to run, I got a car comin' down and a car comin' up the block
He in the middle of the street, you hear another shot
My shooter send another shot
Heavy handed bartender, he get a double shot
Why you actin' gangsta Gotti? You ain't no fuckin' goon
He shot niggas, did he? Stop treatin' me like I'm fuckin' Lou'
We can do this the quiet way or the loud way, you hear the gun go BOOM
Pull the Desert out, the E's will drop him like he heard it from another room
I said you was a rappin' star, but you rap with your head down and the wolves will eat you for lunch
You got better but I'm not flattered, you ain't thank me enough
I came in L.A., motorcycle like, "Aye cuz where the fuck is the plug?"
Parked on Crenshaw, then Gotti stole my bike, see he playin' too much
I said you rap with your head down, I wasn't tryin' to play you for chump
Well since Baby Boy wanna steal bikes, now he gotta rap with his head up while y'all wait for the punch
You shavin' dirt
I want my money back or your dame get murked
Or I can shoot her in the neck or the blade will work
If you played Captain Save A Hoe the stainless burst
Stab an ice pick in ya eye then rerun it across your face like it's my favorite shirt
That line was naaah, used that sloppy
Could I have used it a better way? Probably
Let me rewind that line back, copy
Gem star to your neck then rerun it across your face it look like I'm playin' air hockey
Streets Of Rage, I can hit him with the ax or he can meet the blade
Hunter with this thunder right now it's time to stop the microwave
Of course I love wrestling bars, I'll get you Rock'ed slam
Shawn Michaels with the kick, I got a hot hand
These Dudley Brothers, one lift you in the air and the other put you through a table
I'm a beast, married to that white girl, call her Sable
Bitch where, Roman Reigns you get your shit spared
North Carolina/Detroit, T-Top to Tee Grizzley, I brought a big bear
A new day for this Uso I'll let a clip air
Two AR's got me walkin' like Ric Flair
I came in this game filled with stars, I'm talkin' VCR's
The Chinese spot, everything we spit was raw
I've been in tough battles, my resume is built with scars
Gotti you ain't nothin' but a cash register so I treat you like a cashier and tuck one under like the bill too large
I'm back on Smack it's time for my Ascension
Ready for the bullshit so miss me with the detention
Layin' on a roof is the only time I'm crawlin' for position
You sell hair so you should be used to these extensions
Gotti I thought you was a real one
You said you had six months to a year in jail and you came home in two weeks
Sheesh
I don't know what type of deal you cut, man that shit was sweet
They confronted you with jail time unless you turned informant, made you squeak
Southside Compton Crip huh?
No wonder they got you out here tellin' on the nephews like [?]
I'll put 18 through your wheel, the dawgs on it
You hop out and try to run, I'm all on it
Catch him at the end of the trailer and then I pull it
{Beasley voice} Although we do this for sport, it is not a game
He got hit with a Beasley bullet
Call it quits
If I make change it's for the Parliament
I got .40 cents in my hand and I'm spendin' all of it
I want your baby mother, I heard she was a baller bitch
So I can stuff her in a black trash bag, that's how you ball a bitch
You'se a Beverly Hills rapper
Ain't no murders down there
You keep your doors locked for what? Ain't no burglars down there
Come to Philly, you fuck around and get murdered down there
Talkin' beef, turn his body to burger down there
Talk is cheap, we take it a step further down there
Not Geechi man but Gucci Man, the clip go blllet blllet burn down there
You bird nigga
Round 2

[Round 3: Geechi Gotti]
Aye this nigga got his mans right here tellin' you the words the whole time and shit
{laughs}
And then you rap for like ten minutes wastin' niggas time and shit
Tryin' to play me for a snitch, man that shit wack
In Cali them type of accusations will get you bitch slapped
Real rap, but I heard Tech a legend
I say, "A legend for what? Cause he beat Miles?"
Nigga what that mean to a nigga that beat trials?
Free my nigga Doggy and Baby Wood, my bros on that fo' yard
Say they livin' through me, so I ain't got no choice but to go hard
See I coulda been killed, if it wasn't for rappin'
Still duckin' them shots from guns that's clappin'
They say my life like a movie
I say this shit couldn't be comedy cause I wasn't laughin'
And when them niggas came through shootin' clips and my patnas died on the scene, that wasn't actin'
Y'all remember Boyz N The Hood?
Ice Cube played Doughboy, that movie made him a star
But we in land of the gangbang, walk ups and drive bys
That wasn't the first time I seen a nigga let the tre (Trey) out the car
True story, I hate it when they say cause we grew up in the hood we hopeless
Nigga that's a damn lie cause I remember goin' to school and my teachers used to be like, You can be whatever you want, you don't gotta be this thug guy."
I said, "I know. I believe anything is possible. Shit yesterday I seen some slugs fly."
Now listen, When Doves Cry, see growin' up, that song ain't make a lot of sense
Til my patna got cracked for a murder cause he ain't had gloves on That's when I realized you can actually learn a lot from prints (Prince)
Now I've been pissed, off for a minute
Cause y'all remember I asked a mama what hurt more; givin' birth or buryin' him?
She told me it was givin' birth, now that answer threw me to the left
She said cause she never planned on bein' pregnant but the way that nigga was livin' she was already plannin' for his death
Now this lifestyle will have a nigga stressed
Like the condom broke in a hoodrat
My biggest fear, is gettin' smoked by a nigga who was just askin' where the woods at
True story, that's why I'm never slippin', it's forever grippin'
Two straps, one nine, one revolver, the code word: Red Lobster
(What the fuck that mean?)
You will get this before the meal, it's a cheddar biscuit
The Metal Twisted, but it's not a game
I hold it like this cause I don't need the aim
BAOW, put this clown head on fire he Needles Kane
The heat'll bang, they told me, if they ain't ridin' for you, then what the fuck you doin' wit' 'em?
I sent a prayer up to Spittage, he told me to tell you stop sayin' his name before the battles if you gon' be losin' in 'em
Stupid nigga
My cousin Wicked got hit when that Tec jammed; true story
I'm just glad he live to tell about it
My patna got shot in his couch, left stankin' in the house
I seen his grandma she said she still can't get the smell up out it
You gotta have the stomach for this
I digress cause seein' my niggas just die, that's hard to digest
But I guess, we done been to enough jails
Even blindfolded we can sketch out the cell pattern
This the gangland where niggas die, rags cover the coughin' (coffin) like we well mannered
My niggas hit me everyday like, "Gotti what's up? I'm glad you got out."
Cause I'm one of the few niggas that understand a green dot is more important than a shoot out
My niggas be in there pissed off, thinkin' that niggas don't give a fuck about him like they must hate 'em
It be everyday I be gettin' frustrated wishin' I could just save 'em
Cause they write letters to niggas who won't even write back
The only letter they get is the one the judge gave 'em
And you think I gave a fuck about who they cheer fo'?
I only came here to show the difference between a real one and a weirdo
And when it's real you can see it in they eyes
Go 'head see if you can make them believe them lies
Time

[Round 3: Tech 9]
Can y'all hear me? Well aight then
You good? Well aight then
S.P.I.T.T.A.G.E
Y'all motherfuckers get it right Wayne A.V.E
Look at my eyes, you see nothin' but pain inside
I done lost love ones, close friends, they talkin' change
Well in my city ain't nothin' in mine
Over a quarter you can catch a quarter, I got a little change in mind
These young boys on a suicide mission cause they was trained to ride
Innocent bystanders gettin' shot cause these pussies aimin' high
When it's hot the murder rate pop
When it's cold the murder rate drop, it's crazy how the weather can be the reason whether you live or die
Gotti you can't talk this real shit to me, everything you claim you did I've been through it
My little sister was murdered on the corner of my mother's block, now every time she walk home from work she gotta live through it
If you don't get killed by your own brother then the pigs do it
Stop snitchin', these little niggas get a story and they stick to it
I got so many guns sometimes I don't know how to pick 'em
First it's the TEC, warning shots so I rip low
Second is the 4-5, the feelin' make me wanna grip mo'
The third is the AR the shit got me walkin' like my hip broke
I can't figure out what gun I wanna smoke you with but don't trip though
Cause you can get 'em all, you can get the 1, 2 and the 3 like Avocado intro

{Chokes}

You look like one of them old ass hip hop fans, that knows the words to every song
Y'all know that friend that know the first verse before it comes on?
Regulator!
It was a clear black night, a clear white moon
Warren G was on the streets tryin' to consume
Some skirts for the eve so I can get some funk
Rollin' in my ride, chillin' all alone
Just hit the east side of the LBC
On a mission tryin' to find Mr. Warren G
Seen a car full of skirts, ain't no need to tweak
All you skirts know what's up with 213
Mount up
Nigga how you rap the first verse before the mount up
Some of the shit you do just don't mount up
Crib like a gun store, AK and AR's on the wall I got the mount up
Trap house movin' dope sales
Security on lock don't get your throat melt
Come to my crib with all that vendin'
And it's a machine on every floor like it's a hotel
Personals, why I gotta dig dirt
If I dig dirt it's followed by a casket, big hearse
What L.A. did to Notorious, I should strangle you with a big shirt
[?] and I got somethin' and common
She 4'5" and I got the 4-5, we both tryin' to wig first
URL sponsored by the smoke
Somebody call Al Kapone cause Gotti catchin' the cig' (Sig') first
Champion, we treat battle rap like it's a sport too
Extension, drive-by on the court too
Cheap money, big talk and you can't afford to
Game Of Thrones, my gun don't got a body but my sword do
Blades shiftin', Valerian steel, they made different
You talk at her, I talk to her, the age different
Lanes switchin', usin' 2-20 on the dash we race different
I land on the roof top of the hotel, you pull up with a roof top to the hotel we stay different
Breast milk baby, Similac bay, we raised different
You shakin' with the gun, I'm steady with the gun we raise different
Nigga owe you money you give them deadlines, extension
A nigga owe me money it's a dead line, extension
Cold killer, oh you a drama starter
I catch you at the crib playin' bones witcha girl
Knife out, put stake in ya company then turn around and hit you with the silent partner
Quiet investor, detective found stake in your company but couldn't find out where money came from cause I hit you with the silent, partner1Embed Take It Easy - 2013 Remaster Eagles (2013 Remaster) Eagles country