1 ContributorSocial Media Explosion LyricsFrom Facebook to the photo-sharing site Pinterest to virtual adventure games, software that helps people meet, converse, work and compete with others is drawing billions online. The use of social media comes with a price, however. Every photo upload or click of a “like” button deposits users' personal data online, much of which is sold to help businesses target advertising. To some, such data mining endangers long-cherished privacy rights, but social media supporters say it is a small price to pay for the benefits of online socializing. Meanwhile, critics of social media express concern that many members of the digital generation may fail to develop vital communication skills because they prefer virtual contact over face-to-face conversations. But proponents say most people use social media not to avoid others but to stay in touch with them.

Go to top

Overview

Randi Zuckerberg — Facebook's former marketing director and sister of Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg — should have known better.

After she posted a family photo for her Facebook friends, the picture popped up in the Twitter feed of someone not on Ms. Zuckerberg's “friend” list. “Not sure where you got this photo,” she tweeted angrily. “I posted it only to friends. You reposting it on Twitter is way uncool.”

But the error was Zuckerberg's. Even though she had guided Facebook's marketing, she hadn't remembered one of the company's complex rules for figuring out which postings are private. The person who tweeted the picture was a Facebook friend of a different Zuckerberg sister in the photo. Because that sister was named — “tagged,” in Facebook parlance — as one of the photo's subjects, the picture was visible to all her Facebook friends as well, despite sister Randi's intention to only share it privately.

It's a typical confusion of the social media era, when mushrooming numbers of photos and other personal information are being placed online with no consensus about whether any of it should remain private or viewable by only a few, and, if so, how to accomplish that.

The Internet has been a haven for socializing since its earliest days, but beginning about a decade ago technology developers have focused like a laser on “social media” — software designed primarily to facilitate social interaction — as the key to drawing the public online. Today, social media include social networks such as Facebook that allow people to reach out to friends of friends; the photo-sharing site Pinterest; the collaboratively written Wikipedia encyclopedia; the “user review” sections at retail websites such as Amazon; “virtual worlds” such as “World of Warcraft” where people from around the world meet, compete, collaborate and play adventure games together, and many more.




Linebacker Manti Te'o of the University of Notre Dame is at the center of an Internet hoax involving his two-year online relationship with a non-existent young woman who Te'o said had died of cancer. The situation constitutes “a terrible statement about where we are today and how social media is a tool in some really bad stuff,” said Notre Dame athletic director Jack Swarbrick. Te'o says he did not know it was a hoax. (Getty Images/Mike Ehrmann)


Software that helps people meet, converse, work and play with others is king of the online universe, and its popularity keeps growing. As of July 2011, nearly 164 million Americans were using social media, according to the New York City-based media-research company Nielsen, and by July 2012 the number had risen 5 percent, to about 172 million.

While research is in its earliest stages, some analysts believe that because young people, especially, have shifted so much social energy online, social media may end up having profound effects not just on privacy but on both individual human relationships and how people relate to their communities.
Facebook CEO Zuckerberg has famously said that, because of social networks, privacy is no longer a “social norm.”

“People have really gotten comfortable not only sharing more information and different kinds, but more openly and with more people,” said Zuckerberg. That new social norm is “just something that has evolved over time,” he said.

But some analysts argue that privacy protections are crucial. “The No. 1 problem is that the United States doesn't have data-protection” requirements, says Alice Marwick, an assistant professor in communication and media studies at Fordham University in New York City. “The No. 2 problem,” she says, “is that the market impulse goes in the opposite direction” from privacy protection, promising huge financial rewards to social media companies that sell users' information for targeted marketing efforts and the like.

Little is known about how social media may be affecting human relationships. However, some analysts fear that social media are being seen as a replacement for face-to-face conversation. In a survey on favored communication modes, people born between 1990 and 1999 said they prefer texting above all other forms of communication, but in second place — tied with instant messaging and phone calls — is communicating via Facebook. Strikingly, face-to-face conversation is the least favored form of communication for the digital generation. That's a stark reversal of the survey preferences voiced by each generational cohort born between 1946 and 1989. All those groups put face-to-face conversation as their preferred conversational mode, and none even listed a social media technology.

“Many kids say they prefer not to talk face to face,” notes Larry Rosen, a professor of psychology at California State University, Dominguez Hills. Instead, he says, they rely on written communication only, mainly via text or social media sites, especially when communicating with adults. That choice might damage young people's communication skills for years to come, Rosen says. When people rely entirely on written messages “where you don't have access to [nonverbal] cues, things are ripe for miscommunication,” he says. Furthermore, without enough practice observing how people communicate through tone and gesture, it becomes difficult to accurately read face-to-face conversations that do take place, he says.

Some worry that a preference for social media over face-to-face meetings may make it easier and more tempting to commit identity fraud and hoaxes. For example, although exactly who was involved in the elaborate hoax is not yet clear, it was recently revealed that star Notre Dame linebacker Manti Te'o engaged in a two-year online relationship with a non-existent young woman who Te'o said died of cancer. He says he did not know it was a hoax. The situation constitutes “a terrible statement about where we are today and how social media is a tool in some really bad stuff,” said Notre Dame athletic director Jack Swarbrick.






Others see little reason for worry. Most “digital natives” — the generation that has grown up online — do not appear to be living their personal lives much differently than older generations, says Kaveri Subrahmanyam, a professor of psychology at California State University, Los Angeles. Most use social media mainly “to connect to people already in their lives” and “do the things they'd do anyway” in the physical world, she says. “Socially, I don't think that we need to be too concerned,” at least about the average person.

The Internet's potential to ignite a more civically engaged populace by making policy information and political debate easily accessible has excited speculation since the world first went online. Now, the dominance of social media — which spark intense online engagement by many people in social and entertainment matters, for example — has further fueled those hopes.

Research suggests that social media are leading to increased political activity, says Joseph Kahne, a professor of education at Mills College, in Oakland, Calif., and chairman of the MacArthur Foundation's Research Network on Youth and Participatory Politics. In a survey, 41 percent of young people reported engaging in what Kahne terms “participatory politics” — individual efforts to influence public policy outside the sphere of institutions such as political parties. Their methods include tweeting support for a cause or forwarding a news article about an issue. This kind of personal political engagement is “happening more and more” among young people of all races and ethnicities, he says.

An example occurred in January 2012, when the Dallas-based Susan G. Komen Foundation, which supports breast cancer research and treatment, announced it would no longer fund programs offered by Planned Parenthood, Kahne notes. The announcement triggered a storm of furious commentary on Twitter, Facebook and other online sites — some from individuals and some from organizations — and three days later the foundation reversed course.

Participatory politics played a big role in the incident, in which a powerful organization was prodded to change its position, at least partly because of influence from everyday people, says Kahne. The influence “didn't generally run through institutions” such as lobbyists or lawmakers, he says. Instead, “a lot of people posted stuff on Facebook pages. It went viral.”
Despite the growing prevalence of such events, social media probably are not causing more people to become interested in politics and policy, as some Internet analysts have long hoped, Kahne says. Most people who engage in the new participatory politics would have been following politics anyway, he says. However, social media have provided new ways for people to turn their interest into deeper involvement and influence, he says.

As Internet users and technology analysts ponder how the burgeoning world of social media may be changing people's lives, here are some of the questions being asked:

Do social media foster greater community engagement?

Through social media such as Twitter and Facebook, friends can urge friends to become involved in causes, and advocacy groups can reach out to millions. Social-media skeptics, however, wonder how much of this new engagement is useful.

During riots in London in August 2011, triggered by economic unrest and a police shooting, “we have seen extraordinary acts of pro-active social engagement” carried out on social media, wrote Kate Crawford, a principal researcher at the corporate think tank Microsoft Research, in Boston, and an associate professor of media at Australia's University of New South Wales, in Sydney. A Facebook and Twitter campaign under the hashtag #riotcleanup “rallied people to clean up the streets,” wrote Crawford. On Twitter and Tumblr — a social network and blog website that makes it easy for users to follow other users' blogs — citizen journalists writing from the field “made substantive contributions to media coverage,” she said.






Social media make supporting and organizing causes easier than in the past and are especially effective in getting people already interested in politics to take a more active role, says Daniel Kreiss, an assistant professor of journalism and mass communication at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill. For example, thanks to social media, “I can give a small donation much easier — instantaneously” in fact, he says. Debating public issues can now be done from home, for free, via social media channels such as Twitter, Tumblr blogs, and newspaper and blog comment sections. In the past, self-publishing a pamphlet cost at least a bit of cash, and figuring out how to get it to potentially interested people was extremely difficult, Kreiss notes.

President Obama's 2008 and 2012 campaign operations used Facebook effectively to encourage supporters to contact particular Facebook “friends” who analysts determined were promising targets for a vote-Obama pitch, Kreiss says.

“A strong activist community is one that is unified and [has] a sense of camaraderie,” wrote Charles Harris, a political science major and 2011 graduate of Western Kentucky University Honors College, in Bowling Green, who organized his local university chapter of a national peace and sustainability group. Facebook is an ideal place to bring activists together because the frequent interaction people experience on social media can increase “comfort levels in interaction during regular meetings” in real life, he said.

Some observers argue, however, that the role of big-name social media such as Twitter has been overblown when it comes to organizing protests.

Western commentators have claimed that Iranians used Twitter to organize protests after a contested June 2009 election. But, in fact, Twitter was used only minimally, according to Golnaz Esfandiari, an Iranian-born blogger and a senior correspondent for the U.S.-funded agency Radio Free Europe, which broadcasts to Eastern Europe, Central Asia and the Middle East. Most of the Twitter feeds Westerners quoted as evidence of Twitter's role were in English, and “no one seemed to wonder why people trying to coordinate protests in Iran would be writing in any language other than Farsi,” Esfandiari said. Twitter may actually have had a destructive influence on the protests because it eased the spread of unsubstantiated rumors, she said.

In social media's early days, Internet theorists “had this amazing optimism that as the cost of [becoming engaged and engaging others] falls, then everyone was going to be engaged in public issues,” says Kreiss. “But it turns out that there's always a ceiling, in money, in skills, in time.” It's now clear that while many who were already interested in public issues are more deeply engaged because of social media, the greatly broadened participation once predicted is highly unlikely to happen, he says.
With ever-increasing amounts of information about individuals available from social networks such as Facebook, political campaigns can target their messages to only the very small slice of the electorate prone to be persuadable, and that could be dangerous to democracy, wrote Kreiss and Philip N. Howard, an associate professor of communication at the University of Washington in Seattle. “Scholars have long feared a ‘democratic deficit’” when campaigns communicate only with the handful of voters they believe will respond to specific pitches so that successful candidates, in effect, end up representing only those people, they wrote.

Social media communications and relationships are too short and shallow to spur deep commitment, argues best-selling author Malcolm Gladwell, a journalist who writes about social-science research.

Effective activists for high-stakes causes such as the 1960s civil rights marches almost invariably have a high degree of personal connection to the movement, with many real-life friends — the kind “who talk late into the night with one another” — also involved, he wrote. “The kind of activism associated with social media isn't like this at all,” Gladwell argues. Twitter “is a way of following … people you may never have met,” while Facebook is “for keeping up with the people you would not otherwise be able to stay in touch with.” Such acquaintances are useful for passing along new information about causes one might consider supporting, but they aren't personally compelling enough to inspire the hard work of true activism, he argues.

Are social media making personal relationships more difficult?

With many people communicating with friends more online than off these days, debate is growing about whether that trend is healthy for human relationships.

“It's a tough area to study because it's all so new,” says California State's Rosen. “There are no answers yet.”

Some trends are emerging, however, Rosen and other researchers say.

Teens are showing “a decrease in risk taking” from previous generations when it comes to expressing themselves and interacting with other people, says Katie E. Davis, an assistant professor at the University of Washington Information School in Seattle. “It's hard to know how much of this comes from technology,” but many teenagers today hold back on intimacy by forgoing face-to-face conversations whenever possible in favor of writing on a Facebook wall or texting — modes of communication that encourage much briefer and less open-ended dialogue than do more traditional approaches such as face-to-face talk or even email, she says.

“It feels much safer to broach uncomfortable subjects when you don't have to look someone in the eye,” says Davis. “It takes a lot of the messiness out of relationships, but it means that you don't make yourself vulnerable,” Davis says. That can be a problem because vulnerability is a key to strong relationships, she says.

Many teens also seem constrained when it comes to expressing different aspects of themselves freely, Davis says. Traditionally, “adolescence is a time of experimentation,” when people try on many roles and are concerned with self-expression, she points out. But, she adds, in a Facebook-dominated world many say “that how they present themselves online is very public, something that friends” and even parents and college admissions officers might scrutinize and judge, she says. Then, because the online and offline social worlds are increasingly intertwined, many teens end up presenting themselves in both arenas as what Davis terms “packaged, polished selves” who conform to whatever image they believe fits best in their social circle, without allowing eccentric pictures or negative emotions or unusual interests to show. “Everything's happy on Facebook” even if it's not, she says.

As the online world migrates to mobile devices through which social media are readily available 24 hours a day, new concerns arise.

A 2011 study found that smartphone users are developing “checking habits” — recurring 30-second glances at social media such as Facebook — as often as every 10 minutes.

“Just the fact that we're constantly pulling our phones out” is evidence “that we're becoming anxious,” says Rosen. “An obsession is something that builds up an anxiety so that we have to do something about it to relieve it” — in this case, check for contact from one's social group, he says.

Camp directors interviewed by the University of Washington's Davis see this anxiety growing rampant among “helicopter parents,” Davis says. To avoid being out of touch with their away-at-camp children, some parents now equip their youngster with two cell phones so that when the camp director asks for one to be handed over, the child still has a hidden one. “Parents expect to see pictures of their children on a camp's website” daily, something unheard of just a few years ago, Davis says.






“Digital natives” are “always connected, never alone,” says Subrahmanyam, at California State University, Los Angeles.

This fact may translate into overblown fears of being alone, according to some analysts. “We have a generation of young adults who, due to no fault of their own, have grown dependent on continuous technological connection,” wrote Vivian Diller, a psychologist in New York City. With so little experience dealing with “frustration or loneliness,” Diller wonders how a cell phone-dependent generation will deal with such feelings.

The more one's Facebook friends include people from different spheres — such as extended family, school friends and work colleagues — the greater one's social stress, according to researchers at Scotland's University of Edinburgh. “Facebook used to be like a great party for all your friends where you can dance, drink and flirt,” said Ben Marder, a fellow at the university's business school. “Now with your mum, dad and boss there, the party becomes an anxious event full of potential social landmines.”

But many researchers also note that qualms and difficulties always accompany new technology and that some evidence indicates that much social media use is benign.

In young people's quick embrace of social media, it's clear that they constitute “a primal way to satisfy the eternal need for social connection,” says Subrahmanyam.

Social media tools clearly help some people, says Rosen. For example, studies show that for people with mild or major depression, “having many friends on Facebook helps” improve moods, in the same way that talking on the phone does.

In addition, “we've actually found that practicing being empathetic online” — such as by commenting positively on someone's online postings — “can help you learn to be empathetic in the real world,” says Rosen. “Now we're looking at whether kids can learn other social skills online,” such as taking turns and “expressing what you say in nicer terms,” and then translate those skills into offline situations where they're needed.

Are social media eroding privacy?

As people navigate the Internet, social media and data-analysis companies gather information about everything from what magazine articles they read to what times of day they log on to websites and whose birthday parties they attend. Statistical analysts aggregate that information into profiles that businesses use to target ads and political campaigns milk for insight into whether voters are persuadable.

To some, this aspect of social media spells the end of the very notion of privacy — the idea that all people have the right and should have the ability to determine for themselves who can see their personal information. But others say allowing such “data mining” for commercial and other purposes is a reasonable price to pay for the services social media provide.

Internet users are likely unaware of how aggressive companies are about using personal information, wrote software developer Dave Winer, who says the current climate “scares” him.

“I have always assumed everything I post to Facebook is public,” but companies now use information that we leave behind simply by visiting websites, without ever clicking a “Like” button or posting a comment, Winer wrote. “What clued me in was an article on [the technology blog] ReadWriteWeb that says that just reading an article on their site may create an announcement on Facebook” that will go out to all of one's Facebook followers — a group that includes not just one's Facebook “friends” but people, including strangers, who have signed up to get access to public posts. “People joke that privacy is over, but I don't think they imagined that the disclosures would be so proactive.”






As the archives of personal data grow, interest increases in examining them for many purposes.

In the past, college admissions officers viewed only information provided by applicants or available from public sources, such as schools or government agencies. A recent survey of medical school and residency admissions officers, however, found that while only 9 percent said they routinely used material from social networks to make admissions decisions, 53 percent said evidence of unprofessional behavior found on such sites could jeopardize a candidate's spot.

The Obama campaign had access to more than 500 points of data for every member of the public, including data from surveys, commercial and financial transactions, magazine subscriptions and so on, says Kreiss of the University of North Carolina. “None of it is very meaningful” on its own, he says. However, because analysts have data for literally hundreds of millions of people, they can use statistical patterns to construct a profile of the person most likely to be swayed to vote for a candidate, he says.

Kreiss believes campaigns should be required to reveal basic information about how they use personal data. “We don't know if the data is secure or how campaigns target certain people” to receive particular individualized ads, he says.

For example, today campaigns send certain ads to people who access the Internet over a smartphone, different ads to people who use a computer or tablet and very negative ads only to carefully chosen voters. Since the Supreme Court has ruled that it is constitutional to require transparency of political advertisers, “there should be a disclosure on every individually targeted ad that explains: ‘Why am I seeing this ad?’” he argues.

Nevertheless, Kreiss doesn't think the data give campaigns a creepy superpower to manipulate voters. “An ad that's specifically targeted to me still won't make me turn into a Republican. Ads work on the margin,” convincing only a very narrow subset of people who are ripe for changing their minds, he says.

The difficulty of drawing truly accurate conclusions about people from even the largest amounts of data may be the biggest problem, said Alessandro Acquisiti, an associate professor of information technology and public policy at Carnegie Mellon University's Heinz College.

Companies sell data-mining and profile-assembly services to employers looking for guidance on which job candidates to hire and advertisers seeking to woo customers who might be particularly influential among their peers. Today, some organizations even use facial-recognition software to link people in photos to their Facebook profiles to ferret out more details about them. But analogous experiments carried out by his research team demonstrate that such operations should be regarded with mistrust because it's far too easy to jump to a sure-feeling — but dead wrong — conclusion about someone based on information they reveal online, Acquisiti said. “We tend to make strong extrapolations about weak data,” he said.

Other analysts argue that privacy violations are not a problem, even in some of the most massive databases.

Businesses that use social media information to target advertising collect the data and target the ads using numerical customer codes rather than real names, according to companies involved in such work. Contrary to privacy-advocates' fears, therefore, the data collection actually preserves social media users' anonymity and thus their privacy, company representatives say.




Competitors in the final round of the LG U.S. National Texting Championship face off in New York's Times Square on Aug. 8, 2012. Austin Wierschke, a 17-year-old from Rhinelander, Wis., left, won for the second year in a row, pocketing $50,000. In 39 seconds he accurately typed a 149-character message with capitalization, punctuation and several symbols. (AFP/Getty Images/Stan Honda)


An oft-expressed worry is that the “digital-native” generation may forgo traditional concerns about privacy in favor of broadcasting their doings to a social media audience. In fact, however, many young people “are actually being very strategic” and increasingly savvy about social media use, says Fordham University's Marwick.

For example, “we see people using sites like Twitter” — where pseudonyms are allowed — “to post more playfully” than they would on Facebook, knowing that what they post there is “not going to come back to their Facebook identities,” Marwick says.

Teens also are shifting to pseudonym-permitted sites to share the kind of private revelations that most people have always restricted to a small circle, according to the blog of mobileYouth, a consulting firm that analyzes marketing for mobile devices.

Recent surveys reveal that more teens now seek out social media sites where they can restrict their postings to friends only. At the same time, many are adding to their social media repertoire Twitter accounts blocked to public viewing. A Twitter account visible to friends only is “the equivalent of having that secret diary you would allow only your closest friends to read. This is where teens post more emotional content — how they feel after a breakup, their latest crush,” said the mobileYouth analyst.

One survey found that between 2009 and 2011 teen Twitter users doubled from 8 percent to 16 percent, mainly splitting their online time between Facebook and Twitter, according to the mobileYouth blog.

Some governments are limiting how far companies can go in collecting personal information, although the trend hasn't spread to the United States, says Marwick. The European Union recently required social media sites to turn off their facial-recognition technology. “It's ridiculous that video store rental is protected and online information” — much of it far more revealing — “is not,” she says.

Go to top

Background

Social Life

Over the centuries, people have quickly turned new technologies of all kinds into new and improved ways to meet one of humanity's strongest needs — to socialize. Horse-drawn carriages and automobiles, designed as simple transportation, quickly became dating venues for young lovers. The telephone, intended as a business aid, almost immediately became a favorite means of social chitchat.

In the late 1960s, when the Internet was established, its quick adoption for friendly social interaction surprised its developers. By 1973, e-mail — much of it purely social in nature — made up 75 percent of traffic on ARPANET, the world's first computer network, designed by the Department of Defense to allow researchers to exchange data and access remote computing capability. Early “newsgroups,” used by Internet researchers to transmit messages, soon included groups sharing their enthusiasms for subjects such as science fiction and wines.

By the 1990s, technology developers had caught on to the appeal of online socializing and saw it — rather than the lure of interesting content — as key to attracting the public online.

“Community is the Velcro that keeps people [at America Online (AOL)],” said Ted Leonsis, a former top AOL executive. AOL was one of the first tech companies to provide public access to the Internet from home computers.

Among the social features AOL introduced early in its existence were chat rooms that allow users to exchange messages live and “buddy lists” that alert members when their friends are online so they can exchange instant messages.

Social Media

The first social networking site (SNS) similar to those that are popular today — New York-based SixDegrees.com — was launched in 1997. It integrated several existing software features into a package that closely resembles the later SNS giants, MySpace and Facebook.

Social network sites are unique not because they “allow individuals to meet strangers” with common interests, wrote Nicole Ellison, an associate professor of human-computer interaction at the University of Michigan's School of Information, and Danah Boyd, a senior researcher at Microsoft Research. Online chat rooms and newsgroups always facilitated such interactions, they noted. Instead, social networking sites “enable users to articulate and make visible” to themselves and others their real-world webs of social connections, including friends of friends, thus linking an online social world with a real-life social world, Ellison and Boyd wrote.

Unlike previous online technologies, SNSs alerted people to the “friends of their friends” and allowed users to browse SNSs' membership lists, thus allowing them to reach out socially by the natural-feeling method of contacting people with whom they have mutual acquaintances, wrote Boyd and Ellison.

Others can use the information, too, however, setting up concerns about whether this innovative socializing tool exposes SNS members to too much snooping. Among other risks, governments can use the “friends of friends” information to find and watch the social circles of people they suspect of dangerous activity.

Since the first SNSs came on the scene, the online world has included ever more elements of “social media” — loosely defined as technologies that center the online experience on:
•
user-created content, both individual and collaborative; (such as the user-written Wikipedia),

•
conversation and other interaction among social-media users, such as “liking” fellow users' postings;

•
participation in online communities with shared interests, and

•
in some cases, publication of individuals' social circles online.


The technologies that enable such activities are known as Web 2.0, a term first used in 2004 to distinguish the new — social — online world from the Web 1.0 paradigm, in which software tools were primarily designed to facilitate publishing content on the World Wide Web, according to Andreas M. Kaplan and Michael Haenlein, professors of marketing at the Paris campus of ESCP Europe, a business school.

The World Wide Web is the massive Internet-based technology, invented around 1990 by British technology developer Tim Berners-Lee, which allows browsers such as Internet Explorer to use so-called hyperlinks to discover and access the millions of documents and other resources that exist on the Internet's connected computers.

In the Web 1.0 days, the aim behind most online technology was to make it easier and cheaper for individuals and organizations to publish their work online in a way that would be easy for others to discover as they “clicked” website links. As it became clear that socializing is a more compelling human desire than creation, however, Web 2.0 shifted from helping people publish their own blogs to helping them converse, collaborate, compete, meet, socialize and comment on others' online postings, Kaplan and Haenlein wrote. With Web 2.0, online “content and applications are no longer created and published by individuals, but instead are continuously modified by all users in a participatory and collaborative fashion.” That occurs, for example, when multiple blog participants create a massive commentary on a single individual post or when YouTube posters create a massive archive of, say, a musician's live and electronic performances.

In Web 2.0, the universe of online “user-generated content” exploded. No longer did a person have to commit to a time-consuming personal blog — which no one might ever see — to be an online content creator. Using social media tools, even time-strapped people and those who aren't interested in writing their thoughts have easy routes to posting content that others are likely to see and respond to. Spurred by the lure of getting responses from others, Internet users have embraced social media.

Social media technologies also include reader-review sections at online retailer Amazon and other commercial sites; increasingly expansive readers'-comment sections on blogs and at newspaper websites; YouTube, where cell phone and other videos are shared by people and businesses; the photo-sharing site Pinterest where people post and categorize favorite images relating to interests such as fashion; and blog websites such as Tumblr, where some bloggers mainly post screen captures and brief animated snippets from favorite TV shows.

In fact, not all social media even require users to create content to participate and collaborate, notes Christopher Peterson, a research assistant at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Center for Civic Media.

Websites such as Digg and Reddit, for example, engage members in “curating” online content, or filtering the staggering amount of content that appears online daily, elevating the best to a position so others will be likely to see it. Users vote posted content up or down, and, based on an algorithm that weights individual users' ratings, content that's judged most positively rises to prominence, says Peterson. As a result, large numbers of ordinary Internet users daily sift through massive amounts of material and “decide what's good or bad — rather than having editors decide to what our attention should be directed,” he says. “We trust the people and the algorithm to surface useful information from a flood of material.”

Other social media offer opportunities to interact through role-playing in “virtual worlds.”

In multiplayer online role-playing games such as “World of Warcraft,” players choose characters — called avatars — to represent themselves and enter a virtual game world to pursue adventures such as fighting monsters or seeking treasure. In the process, they interact with other players' characters, competing, collaborating and forming friendships, rivalries and romances. Players find the social games so compelling that they spend an average 22.7 hours a week in play.

Other virtual social worlds such as “Second Life” don't have game-style rules but allow people to choose animated avatars and “live” in an online video environment as those people. Players socialize and form relationships with other “residents” as they explore the world, create and participate in groups of many kinds as well as create businesses and “sell” one another virtual goods and services such as virtual pets, clothing, jewelry, works of art and parcels of “Second Life” real estate.

Social Everywhere

The use of mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets for accessing the Internet also has helped fuel social media's dominance.

Tweets and Facebook status updates encapsulate a moment's thought or emotion, making them perfect for devices that are always in one's pocket, argues Kaplan, the Paris marketing professor.






As the world has gone mobile, social media have become “an even more integrated part of social life” because mobile-device users are actually connected to social media at all times, even when surrounded by live companions, as in a restaurant with friends or family, says Fordham's Marwick. That gives people's social media circles increased influence because “you're getting feedback” from them constantly, she observes.

Some social media have been developed to take advantage of the fact that mobile devices reveal their users' exact locations 24 hours a day, wrote Kaplan. At the locally based directory services collectively known as Yelp, users can search for local businesses and post reviews of businesses that are then “tagged” to a location and accessible to other users who visit the spot. Yelp users also gain reputations in the Yelp community as useful or less useful reviewers, based on voting by other users.

Who's in Charge?

Social media facilitate easy communication with friends as well as publication of one's ideas to a potentially wide audience. As of August 2012, nearly 70 percent of U.S. adult Internet users employed social networking sites, for example, including 75 percent of women and 92 percent of people ages 18 to 29. And it's all free.

Free, however, always comes at a price. The bottom line with anything consumers get “free” is this, wrote a commenter pen-named “blue_beetle” on the MetaFilter blog: “If you are not paying for it, you're not the customer; you're the product being sold.”

When it comes to social media, the presumed value of the customer-as-product lies in the massive amounts of personal information social media users leave online, which businesses hope to use to target ads and marketing. That includes information people post about themselves, information gleaned from analyzing an individual's social media connections and patterns of online activity and information that mobile technology sends out constantly about its users' geographic location and online activities. Debates over how that information is collected, stored and used and who has the right to grant access to it and control its uses have raged throughout the social media age.

“Even more so than television audience members, Facebook users function as workers who look … at advertisements but are also, crucially, suppliers of personal information and producers of content — particularly on a platform like Facebook,” wrote Tamara Shepherd, a postdoctoral fellow in information-technology management at Toronto's Ryerson University. Unlike with traditional media, the customer information social media produces is so detailed that advertisers not only can determine which products people are likely to buy but can use clues about their economic status to show them different prices for the same goods, Shepherd wrote.

“The privacy concerns surrounding social media are the most important things to pay attention to,” says Fordham's Marwick. “We want to connect and share with those we care about, and we want to participate in public life, but we don't want our information to be public,” she says.

Go to top

Current Situation

Profits and Control

Social media companies continue looking for ways to turn the public's love of their products into profit, but the process is tough. Meanwhile, struggles continue between marketers hungry for personal data and individuals who want to control how their information is shared.

During the recent holiday shopping season, while store and online sales rose, the number of purchases made after a social media user clicked through to a store from a site such as Facebook or YouTube dropped 26 percent from the previous year. Furthermore, old-fashioned email advertising resulted in $39.40 in sales for each dollar spent in 2012, compared to only $12.90 worth of sales per dollar spent on social media-based promotions.

Social media businesses keep looking for ways to cash in on user-generated content. But users are managing to beat back some initiatives. In December, the photo-sharing site Instagram, owned by Facebook, sparked ire when it announced that it not only claimed full ownership of photos and all other information users leave on the site but would accept cash from companies and other organizations “to display your username, likeness, photos and/or actions you take” in advertising and promotional material “without any compensation to you.” For example, Instagram users might find their vacation photos and comments used in advertising for a hotel or resort without getting paid for the content.

After commenters on Instagram and other social media sites reacted angrily, the company quickly changed course, however. “Instagram has no intention of selling your photos, and we never did. We don't own your photos, you do,” co-founder and CEO Kevin Systrom backtracked on the company blog.




Seattle resident Damon Brown is all smiles after Facebook helped give him a new lease on life. Brown, here with his wife and two sons, found a kidney donor after telling of his need on the social media site. His friends and family forwarded the request to everyone they knew, and a woman his wife had known for years offered to make the donation. (AP Photo/Elaine Thompson)


Still, extending companies' control over user data is a common social media business strategy. In December, Facebook unveiled a revamped system that makes privacy-control tools more easily findable on the site and shows users more details about where and to whom their information is visible — both consumer-friendly moves. However, in the same package, Facebook ended users' rights to mark their profiles off-limits to Facebook's search function.

The ability to hide one's profile from search is being “retired” because only a “single-digit percentage” of Facebook users do so, explained the company's director of product, Sam Lessin. However, because Facebook now has over a billion users, that “single-digit percentage” could mean “tens of millions” of people, remarked Nick Bilton, a technology blogger for The New York Times.

This month, Facebook introduced the first version — fledgling and incomplete — of a search tool that ultimately will allow users to search for much more than just names. Using Graph Search, users can dig into Facebook's photo archives as well as the many preferences that people in their social networks have expressed online to find, for example, “photos of friends before 1990” or which Facebook connections are fans of a particular columnist.

In response, some analysts predict a mass rejection of photo tagging and “liking” as people realize that things they casually responded to five years ago are suddenly searchable by anyone in their Facebook network.

Limiting Access

Simmering questions about whether social media facilitate serious invasions of privacy are leading to new legislative proposals.

Last September in Europe, Facebook turned off its facial-recognition software, which links names to photographed faces based on other photos that users have already “tagged” with a name. Facebook said it would delete all facial-recognition data it had stored for European customers. The Irish Data Protection Commissioner, who oversees data-protection issues for the European Union, and privacy officials in some other EU countries demanded the change on the grounds that the software did not comply with privacy laws in some EU countries.

Privacy experts worldwide have voiced concerns about whether the technology might allow rampant government surveillance of innocent people as well as potentially invasive or embarrassing commercial-marketing efforts based on the content of photos people consider private.

In November 2012, in a measure that applies mainly to email, the U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee approved a bill requiring the government to get probable-cause warrants to request most stored online communications from companies. And in December the panel approved requiring user consent before an app on a mobile device reports information about its geographic location. Committee leaders are expected to urge further action on the bills this year.

On Jan. 1, laws took effect in Illinois and California barring employers from asking workers and job seekers for their social media account-access information. California also has a new law barring universities and colleges from seeking applicants' or students' social media passwords.

On Dec. 28, Michigan's Republican governor, Rick Snyder, signed legislation barring employers and postsecondary educational institutions from requesting social media access information, effective immediately. In early December, New Jersey Republican Gov. Chris Christie signed legislation barring universities and colleges from seeking applicants' or students' passwords. And in November the New Jersey Senate passed a similar ban on employers, which awaits action by the state Assembly. Earlier in 2012, Delaware banned postsecondary educational institutions and Maryland barred employers from seeking social media access information.

Federal legislation blocking employers and colleges from seeking social media access information was introduced in the U.S. House last April, but it expired after no committee acted on it during the 112th Congress.

“Our social media accounts offer views into our personal lives and expose information that would be inappropriate to discuss during a job interview due to the inherent risk of creating biases,” said Democratic California state Assembly member Nora Campos, author of her state's bill.

But some analysts blame an unfounded “media frenzy” for the legislative interest. In March 2012, The Associated Press reported on some isolated incidents in which employers had either requested or required social media log-in information from workers or job applicants. Yet, wrote bloggers for San Francisco-based Littler Mendelson, a law firm specializing in employment issues, no media article has cited “a single study proving that private employers routinely” do so.

Meanwhile, significant cultural changes — including in how people engage with political issues — are occurring because of the intertwining of media and social networking, says Kahne of Mills College. “We think we see potentially a very important shift — especially for young people” in the way people pass along and learn about the news, he says.

In a survey by his research group, roughly as many young people said they got news through their Facebook and Twitter relationships with friends and family as said they got it from newspapers, he says. This suggests that a fairly large percentage of young people — the 10 to 15 percent who report that they regularly forward news — are “mediating or influencing what their family and friends learn” about the world,” Kahne says. “I would argue that's a significant difference” from the past, with the news-forwarders playing a very active role in shaping the political conversation in their networks, he says.

Go to top

Outlook

Changing Expectations?

Just under a decade into the flowering of social media, early predictions that they would empower people in hitherto unimagined ways and earn billions for social media companies are giving way to more realistic views, analysts say.

Theorists once predicted that, with ever larger numbers of people posting and responding to observations at venues such as Twitter and website comment sections, citizen reporting and analysis might rival if not replace traditional journalism for exposing and opposing official malfeasance, says Kreiss of the University of North Carolina. But that task turns out to be too demanding for unpaid amateurs, no matter how numerous, Kreiss says.

“It's great to imagine that an army of people on Twitter is going to call the government to account,” but “professional journalists are paid to sort through databases” and track down elusive sources — actions that social-media users, posting for free in their spare time, simply can't do. “Producing high-quality journalism requires resources to counter power, which itself has huge resources,” he says.

Mid-2000s expectations for the earnings potential of social media companies were also overblown, says Fordham's Marwick.

The concept of a “successful” social media website is beginning to change, she says. For one thing, sites where users post under pseudonyms — rather than real names, as Facebook requires — increasingly get millions of hits by providing social centers where people with shared interests, such as parenting, can converse while maintaining privacy, a combination many people find “very freeing,” she says. Because these companies don't require people to use their real names or reveal their offline social connections, they'll never collect the masses of individual data that Facebook intends to rely on for ultra-high profits.

Still, Marwick says, “I think a lot of the small companies will be fine because they're not expecting to have billion-dollar IPOs” — initial public offerings of their shares on Wall Street. “It's very sexy and exciting to have these young entrepreneurs” such as Facebook CEO Zuckerberg and Microsoft's Bill Gates, who earned billions in the dot-com boom of the 1990s, “but in reality there's no reason that tech companies should make people millions and millions of dollars. We're moving toward a much more moderate model based on reality,” she says.

Having social media as today's predominant communications mode is leading to a significant cultural change — the rise of “participatory culture,” which is already baked into the entertainment arena and spilling over into politics, says Kahne of Mills College. Although the change may hardly be noticeable, participatory activities such as public voting to determine the outcome of TV shows, tweeting back and forth with a TV show's writing staff while an episode airs or providing commentary and debate with other fans on a real-time blog during a football game or reality-TV program are now commonplace activities. During the recent presidential campaign both President Obama and GOP candidate Mitt Romney sent special tweets to their followers before debates, bringing people into a closer relationship to the campaigns than in the past, Kahne says.

All this may make the moment ripe for helping young people forge new connections to political life, Kahne says. The teen and 20-something generation can more easily learn the tools of civic engagement than in the past, because institutions such as advocacy groups and government offices use social media, too, he says.

Studies show that young people already are enthusiastically engaged in participatory culture, and now they can become more politically involved just by “doing [what] they are already doing” on social media for other interests, such as music and sports, “drawing on skills they've already developed,” Kahne says. “These things are much more friendly” to the digital generations than writing letters to the editor, he says.

Go to top

Pro/Con

Will social media's use of facial recognition destroy privacy?




Pro








Alessandro Acquisti
Associate Professor of Information Technology, Heinz College, Carnegie Mellon University. From testimony before Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Privacy, Technology and the Law, July 18, 2012

Face recognition could make our lives easier or more secure; conversely, it could limit our freedom, endanger our security and chill free speech by creating a state of constant and ubiquitous surveillance.

Consider, for instance, Facebook. Many of its users choose photos of themselves as their “primary profile” image. Facebook has aggressively pursued a “real identity” policy, under which members are expected to join the network under their real names, under penalty of account cancellation. Using tagging features and login security questions, the social network has successfully nudged users to associate their and their friends' names to uploaded photos. These photos are also publicly available: Primary profile photos must be shared with strangers under Facebook's own Privacy Policy.

Online social networks such as Facebook are accumulating the largest known databases of facial images. Often, those images are tagged or attached to fully identified profiles. Furthermore, many social network users post and tag multiple photos of themselves and their friends, allowing biometric models of their faces, and those of other people as well, to become more accurate. Furthermore, such a vast and centralized biometrics database can be at risk of third-party hacking.

An analysis of recent history in the market for personal data also suggests that firms may engage in more invasive applications of face recognition over time. If recent history is a guide, the current, almost coy applications of face recognition may be “bridgeheads” designed by firms to habituate end-users into progressively more powerful and intrusive services.

Consider the frequency with which, in the past few years, a popular social network such as Facebook has engaged in practices that either unilaterally modified settings associated with user privacy or reflected a “two steps forwards, one step backward” strategy, in which new services were enacted, then taken back due to users' reaction, and then enacted again, after some time had passed.

In the absence of policy interventions, therefore, the patterns we are observing (increasing gathering and usage of individuals' facial biometrics data) are unlikely to abate.

The risk exists that some firms may attempt to nudge individuals into accepting more capturing and usage of facial data — creating a perception of fait accompli which, in turn, will influence individuals' expectations of privacy and anonymity.


Con








Robert Sherman
Manager, Privacy & Public Policy, Facebook. From testimony before Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Privacy, Technology and the Law, July 18, 2012

In the early days of Facebook, we learned how important photo sharing was to our users. One component of our photo management and sharing features is photo tagging — the 21st century's version of handwriting captions on the backs of photographs — and it allows users to instantaneously link photos from birthdays, vacations and other important events with the people who participated.

To help our users more efficiently tag their friends in photos, we built “tag suggestions,” which uses facial recognition technology to suggest people they already know and whom they might want to tag.

“Tag suggestions” works by determining what several photos in which a person has been tagged have in common and storing a summary of the data derived from this comparison. When a person uploads a new photo, we compare that photo to the summary information in the templates of the people on Facebook with whom the person communicates frequently. This allows us to make suggestions about whom the user should tag in the photo, which the user can then accept or reject.

“Tag suggestions” has been enthusiastically embraced by millions of people because it is convenient, and the uploader is in control of [his or her] photos.

We launched the feature with several important privacy protections.

“Tag suggestions” only uses data people have voluntarily provided to Facebook — photos and the tags people have applied to them. We do not collect any new information beyond the photos themselves in order for “tag suggestions” to work.

Facebook's technology does not enable people to identify others with whom they have no relationship.

Perhaps most importantly, Facebook enables people to prevent the use of their image for facial recognition altogether. Through an easy-to-use privacy setting, people can choose whether they will use our facial recognition technology to suggest that their friends tag them in photos. When you turn off “tag suggestions,” Facebook won't suggest that friends tag you when photos look like you.

Our software cannot be used to compare a photo of an unknown person against our database of user templates. Our technology is designed to search only a limited group of templates — namely, an individual user's friends — and law enforcement agencies accordingly cannot use our technology to reliably identify an unknown person.


Go to top




Chronology









1990s

As more people go online, companies develop technologies to help them socialize.



1996

AOL introduces the Buddy List, which alerts users when friends are online.



1997

The early social networking site Sixdegrees.com is among the first to link users to friends of their friends.



2000s

As the popularity of social networking grows, technology to facilitate user-generated content and social interaction spreads to most websites.



2001

Online social network Meetup is launched to help link people wanting to meet offline…. Wikipedia, a collaboratively written and edited encyclopedia, is founded.



2003

MySpace is founded…. Vermont Gov. Howard Dean becomes a leading contender for the Democratic presidential nomination with a successful social media-based campaign…. Business networking site LinkedIn debuts…. Online virtual world “Second Life” debuts.



2004

Thefacebook.com debuts for Harvard undergraduates only…. Launch of photo-sharing site Flickr.



2005

Blog-hosting website Xanga adds social networking features…. Social news and entertainment site Reddit is founded; content is featured on the site based on member voting…. Video-sharing site YouTube is founded.



2006

Facebook opens to anyone age 13 or older…. Social network and “microblogging” site Twitter opens.



2007

Facebook introduces Beacon, which updates Facebook members' friends about members' recent purchases, but ends the program after users protest…. Social discussion service Disqus is founded; members use the same login details at any website that uses Disqus; member profiles include information about websites a member uses…. Microblogging website Tumblr founded to facilitate sharing of videos, graphics, music and links…. Good Reads is founded to share book recommendations and reading lists.



2008

Twitter users post 100 million tweets every three months.



2009

Location-based social networking site Foursquare is founded for use on mobile devices; users can search for friends or types of places in their geographical location and leave location-linked commentary for other users.



2010

Privacy advocates dub May 31 “Quit Facebook Day,” but fewer than 40,000 people quit…. Number of Facebook users passes 500 million…. Germany bans employers from checking Facebook pages of potential hires…. Library of Congress agrees to archive all Twitter traffic.



2012

Studies find people have become savvier about protecting privacy on social media…. Facebook sells stock shares to the public for the first time; the $38 per-share offering price is widely considered too high because it's unclear that selling customer data can raise as much revenue as some expect; the stock quickly loses about half its value…. Breast-cancer charity Susan G. Komen Foundation cuts funding to Planned Parenthood but reverses course after criticism explodes on social media…. Documentary film “Kony 2012” by advocacy group Invisible Children attracts more than 95 million YouTube views and millions of “shares” on social media websites as Internet users protest atrocities by the African cult leader Joseph Kony; critics note that the film contains inaccuracies…. European Union (EU) forces Facebook to turn off facial recognition software for users in EU countries…. Senate panel holds hearing on facial-recognition technology…. Senate Judiciary Committee approves bill requiring permission for mobile-device applications to share location-based data and another measure requiring the government to obtain warrants before obtaining most e-mail communications.



2013

Library of Congress has archived 170 billion tweets but struggles with how to make them searchable…. Six states now prohibit employers or postsecondary schools — or both — from demanding access to individuals' social media information…. Facebook introduces new Graph Search feature allowing users to search name-tagged photos and users' online profiles, including “likes.”








Go to top

Short Features

Social Media Becoming a Worrisome Distraction
“If you take the technology away, you'll lose people in minutes.”
The allure of socializing online has created a nation of mobile-device obsessives, many of whom can go barely 10 minutes without checking their smartphones for Twitter or Facebook messages. But the long-term consequences of this behavior are difficult to determine.

Some believe that whatever the psychological and relationship-related changes that may stem from this new form of interaction, social media obsession may already be altering how people think and learn.

Single-minded focus on a person, object or concept seems to be the first casualty, making the age of online socializing also the age of multitasking, says Larry Rosen, a professor of psychology at California State University, Dominguez Hills.

When electronic devices were first becoming ubiquitous, some hoped they would teach a new generation how to multitask better than previous generations did. But research indicates that people who grew up with electronic devices “really can't multitask” either, says Rosen. As a result, the typical technology-obsessed person now gives “continuous partial attention” to just about everything and full attention to almost nothing. “You never do anything in depth,” he says.

“You're constantly interrupted, and you're self-interrupting,” too, he says. The very nature of the brain seems to decree that, for many activities, people simply can't do two or more tasks at once. In addition, while the brain can switch rapidly from task to task, doing so takes more time to do the tasks. In addition, he says, “You simply don't do as thorough a job,” and some tasks simply aren't amenable to being done in a shallow way. The repeated switching of attention also “adds to one's stress.”

Some analysts say evidence may already be showing that technology-driven multitasking takes a toll on one's ability to perform the most complex mental tasks. “I'm not sure I'm able to write in the same concentrated way” as before the saturation of digital media began, says Kaveri Subrahmanyam, a professor of psychology at California State University, Los Angeles. “And I'm teaching 20-year-olds who seem to have less memory than I do.”

The sleep disruptions that accompany social technology may help account for cognitive changes, Subrahmanyam suggests. The “digital native” generation — teens and young 20-somethings who have grown up with these technologies —“sleep with the cell phone and get up in the middle of the night to respond to texts,” she says. While the long-term effects of such behavior are unknown, research has shown that “frequent sleep interruptions make it harder for the brain to consolidate the day's learning and memories,” she says.

Because technologically aided social connection is not going away, society must figure out how to adapt to these changes, says Rosen. He recommends “tech breaks” — for classrooms and even family dinners — to help people tolerate the anxiety many feel when unable to check their online social worlds.

Banning cell phones from the classroom or dinner table doesn't work, he says. “If you take the technology away, you'll lose people in three to five minutes. They'll start to zone out” because of the anxiety of knowing they can't check their phones, he says. Anxious people aren't able to pay attention, he says.

If, instead, people can check their phones every five minutes, for example, that anxiety is defused, and the intervals between phone-checking time can be increased gradually, he says.

Mental focus matters, and social media may pose a particular threat to it, says Rosen.

His research team conducted detailed observations of 263 middle school, high school and university students while they studied at home for 15 minutes. Not surprisingly, most were surrounded by technology and remained at one task just three to five minutes before losing focus. One finding from the research “stunned” Rosen, though: “If the students checked Facebook just once during the 15-minute study period, they had a lower grade-point average.” Thanks to always-available social media, Rosen argues, many young people spend their days constantly simmering in anxiety about whether they've heard from online friends, and “anxiety inhibits learning.”

— Marcia Clemmitt



[1] Larry Rosen, “Driven to Distraction: Our Wired Generation,” Pioneer Press [St. Paul, Minn.], Nov. 12, 2012, www.twincities.com/​opinion/​ci_21982260/​larry-rosen-driven-distraction-our-wired-generatio​n.

















Go to top

Online Anonymity Stirs Controversy
Do real-name-only policies stop abusive behavior or shut down difficult debates?
An old joke runs, “On the Internet, nobody knows you're a dog.” And until several years into the 21st century, that was largely true, since many — if not most — people who participated in online discussion forums did so under pseudonyms. That changed, however, when Facebook and other social media sites such as Google Plus and YouTube began requiring users to post under their real names.

Supporters of real-name-only policies say they prevent abusive behavior online because they force people to take full responsibility for what they post. Proponents of allowing pseudonyms, however, say their use frees many people to engage in honest online conversation about delicate topics such as politics, sex or health problems without exposing them to offline suspicion or harassment.

“Anonymity on the Internet has to go away,” said Randi Zuckerberg, former Facebook marketing director and sister of the company's co-founder and CEO, Mark Zuckerberg. “People behave a lot better when they have their real names down. People hide behind anonymity, and they feel like they can say whatever they want behind closed doors.”




Former Facebook marketing director Randi Zuckerberg, sister of Facebook co-founder Mark Zuckerberg, says people “behave a lot better” when they use their real names online. (Getty Images/Miguel Villagran)


Requiring the use of real names in Internet postings would create a more civil online atmosphere, wrote London-based Internet analyst James Cook. “Associate someone's real name to abusive content that they've posted online, and suddenly they aren't so keen on standing by it,” said Cook. A requirement for real-name posting “is often accompanied by a rise in quality, and a friendlier community,” he said. “Would you scam someone on eBay if they knew your real name? Would you tell someone to go kill themselves via Twitter if everyone who followed that person knew who you were? The odds are that, no, you would not.”

But skeptics of the virtue of a real-names-only Web say such arguments ignore salient points. For one thing, posting under a longtime pseudonym, as many veteran Internet posters have done for decades, is different from posting anonymously, says Alice Marwick, an assistant professor in communication and media studies at Fordham University in New York City. Many pseudonymous posters have built up a reputation under their pseudonyms, she says, and preserving that reputation creates many of the same benefits claimed for real-name posting, without opening people to possible harassment because they hold unpopular views.

“The civility argument doesn't tell the whole story,” said Eva Galperin, international freedom of expression coordinator at the nonprofit Electronic Frontier Foundation, which advocates for online privacy. For instance, “uncivil discourse [is] alive and well in venues with real-name policies (such as Facebook),” she said.

Furthermore, “offline, people say things appropriate to the group they are in,” and the use of online pseudonyms allows people to decide with whom they may openly share which ideas, just as people do in real life, said Bernie Hogan, a research fellow at the Oxford Internet Institute in the United Kingdom. Without that, he said, the freedom to share certain thoughts with only some people vanishes.

Many who prefer pseudonymous postings want to preserve the Internet as a venue for honest discussion of difficult topics as much as they want to make it more civil. Among those who may need the protection of pseudonyms to engage in honest discussion are teachers, those whose relatives don't share their views or circumstances, those who live in intolerant communities, spouses of government workers who must keep their political views to themselves and marginalized people, such as homosexuals, wrote Danah Boyd, a senior researcher at the corporate think tank Microsoft Research. “Not everyone is safer by giving out their real name.”

“People also don't seem to understand the history of Facebook's ‘real names’ culture,” noted Boyd. “When early adopters (elite college students) embraced Facebook, it was a trusted community,” confined to certain universities. Then “as the site grew larger, people had to grapple with new crowds being present and discomfort emerged…. But the norms were set.”

Other analysts say the opportunity to take on another character — such as by choosing a so-called avatar to represent oneself on a game site or some other kind of virtual world — can be a valuable learning experience for young people. For safety's sake, many virtual environments created for children and teens bar users from revealing their true names, ages or the cities in which they live, says Deborah Fields, an assistant professor of instructional technology and learning sciences at Utah State University in Logan. The role playing that takes place in virtual environments — under pseudonyms — is valuable, and “research is suggesting that that's especially true for girls” who, in real life, “are often constrained” in their roles. “It's easier to take on a role with people who don't know you because people who know you put you in a box.”

— Marcia Clemmitt



[2] For background, see Gregory Ferenstein, “Surprisingly Good Evidence that Real Name Policies Fail to Improve Comments,” Techcrunch, July 29, 2012, http://techcrunch.com/​2012/​07/​29/​surprisingly-good-evidence-that-real-namepolicies-​fail-to-improve-comments, and Ramona Emerson, “Google+ ‘Real Names’ Policy Gets Revised,” The Huffington Post, Jan. 24, 2012, www.huffingtonpost.com/​2012/​01/​23/​google-plus-realnames-policy_n_1224970.html.



















[3] Quoted in Eva Galperin, “Randi Zuckerberg Runs in the Wrong Direction on Pseudonymity Online,” Electronic Frontier Foundation, Aug. 2, 2011, www.eff.org/​deeplinks/​2011/​08/​randi-zuckerberg-runs-wrong-direction-pseudonymity.



















[4] James Cook, “Let's Have an Internet-wide Real-name Policy,” The Kernel, Jan. 10, 2013, www.kernelmag.com/​comment/​column/​3951/​lets-have-an-internet-wide-real-name-policy.



















[5] Galperin, op. cit.



















[6] Bernie Hogan, “Real-Name Sites Are Necessarily Inadequate for Free Speech,” Social Media Collective blog, Aug. 8, 2011, http://socialmediacollective.org/​2011/​08/​08/​real-name-sites-are-necessarily-inadequate-for-fre​e-speech.



















[7] Danah Boyd, “Real Name Policies Are an Abuse of Power,” Social Media Collective blog, Aug. 4, 2011, www.zephoria.org/​thoughts/​archives/​2011/​08/​04/​real-names.html.



















[8]Ibid.

















Go to top

Bibliography

Books

Aboujaoude, Elias , Virtually You: The Dangerous Powers of E-Personality , W.W. Norton & Company, 2011. A Stanford University psychiatrist recounts his experiences treating people who have created social media personas that are much more adventurous, risk-taking, confident, sexy and charismatic than their real-life personalities. Those personas often cause problems in the relationships — both online and offline — of their creators.

Castells, Manuel , Networks of Outrage and Hope: Social Movements in the Internet Age , Polity, 2012. A professor of communication technology and society at the University of Southern California, Los Angeles, explains the role of Internet technology in recent social movements such as the Occupy Wall Street movement in the United States and the Arab Spring revolutions in North Africa and the Middle East.

Keen, Andrew , Digital Vertigo: How Today's Online Social Revolution Is Dividing, Diminishing, and Disorienting Us , St. Martin's Press, 2012. An Internet business executive argues that privacy and human intimacy are endangered as the networked world continually increases the amount of information people inadvertently share about themselves and social media replace in-person conversation.

Articles

Angwin, Julia , “The Web's New Gold Mine: Your Secrets,” The Wall Street Journal, July 30, 2010, http://online.wsj.com/​article/​SB10001424052748703940904575395073512989404.html. This article, the first of a series, reports on the burgeoning tracking technology that social media and other websites are using to collect data on computer users as they make their way around the Web. On average, each of the country's 50 most visited websites installed 64 pieces of tracking software on the computers of each visitor; a few of the sites, such as the nonprofit Wikipedia, did not install any, however.

Gillespie, Tarleton , “Is Twitter Us or Them? #Twitterfail and Living Somewhere Between Public Commitment and Private Investment,” Culture Digitally blog, July 31, 2012, http://culturedigitally.org/​2012/​07/​is_twitter_us_or_them. A Cornell University assistant professor of communication describes the ethical, political and business issues involved in having private companies such as Twitter and Facebook function as major public communication channels. Are the companies obligated to support free speech or cooperate with government surveillance? How far can they go in serving advertisers' interests before they harm the public interest?

Rosen, Larry , “The Power of Like: We Like Being Liked … on Facebook,” Rewired blog, Psychology Today, July 15, 2012, www.psychologytoday.com/​blog/​rewired-the-psychology-technology/​201207/​the-power. Is clicking “like” or “share” on a social media site enough to show online friends that we care about them or are such gestures too small to provide meaningful positive feedback?

Singer, Natasha , “Your Online Attention, Bought in an Instant,” The New York Times, Nov. 17, 2012, p. A1, www.nytimes.com/​2012/​11/​18/​technology/​your-online-attention-bought-in-an-instant-by-adve​rtisers.html?pagewanted=all&​amp;_r=0. Marketers increasingly know exactly how people spend their time online and use that information to target them with very specific advertising, including offering different prices to different people. Privacy advocates worry about such scenarios as future marketers targeting shopaholics with low sales resistance with ads tailored to entice them.

Reports and Studies

“Participatory Politics: New Media and Youth Political Action,” The MacArthur Network on Youth and Participatory Politics, 2012, www.michaelhaenlein.eu/​Publications/​Kaplan,​%20Andreas​%20-​%20Users​%20of​%20the​%20world,​%20unite.pdf. A foundation-funded study by academic researchers finds that more than 40 percent of people ages 15 to 25 engage in political acts such as voicing support for or criticism of interest groups on social media websites or forwarding political news to family and friends. Forty-three percent of white, 41 percent of black, 38 percent of Latino and 36 percent of Asian-American youths say they participate in such activities.

“Photos and Videos as Social Currency Online,” Pew Internet and American Life Project, September 2012, http://pewinternet.org/​Reports/​2012/​Online-Pictures.aspx. Social websites specializing in visual media — such as Instagram, Tumblr and Pinterest — are becoming a much more prominent part of the online experience.

Boyd, Danah, and Alice Marwick , “Social Privacy in Networked Publics: Teens' Attitudes, Practices, and Strategies,” discussion paper for Privacy Law Scholars Conference, June 2, 2011, www.danah.org/​papers/​2011/​SocialPrivacyPLSC-Draft.pdf. Basing their arguments on interviews with young people, analysts from the corporate think tank Microsoft Research contend that, contrary to myth, young social media users do care about privacy and try to shape their online behavior to protect it in matters of greatest concern to them.

Go to top

The Next Step

Community Engagement

Falcone, Amanda , “Social Media Now a Must Have in the Political Campaign Toolbox,” Hartford (Conn.) Courant, Sept. 24, 2012, p. A1, articles.courant.com/2012-09-24/news/hc-social-media-0922-20120921_1_social-media-campaign-tweets-pinterest. U.S. Senate GOP candidate Linda McMahon used social media to better connect with Connecticut voters.

Timpane, John , “Today's E-Protesters Live-Stream to the Barricades,” The Philadelphia Inquirer, Oct. 23, 2011, p. A2, articles.philly.com/2011-10-23/news/30313369_1_facebook-posts-facebook-page-social-media. Philadelphia's “Occupy” protesters have used social media to rally the community behind their cause.

Ward, William , “Tweet by Tweet, Change Comes to the Olympic Games,” Newsday (N.Y.), Aug. 5, 2012, p. A36, www.newsday.com/​opinion/​oped/​ward-tweet-by-tweet-change-comes-to-the-olympic-ga​mes-1.3880551. Twitter helped make the Summer Olympics an interactive media experience for viewers and fans.

Facial Recognition Technology

Bilton, Nick , “Behind the Google Goggles, Virtual Reality,” The New York Times, Feb. 22, 2012, p. B1, www.nytimes.com/​2012/​02/​23/​technology/​google-glasses-will-be-powered-by-android.html. Google plans to sell eyeglasses that act as mobile computer monitors.

Freishtat, Sarah , “Just a Face in a Crowd? Scans Pick Up ID, Personal Data,” The Washington Times, July 26, 2012, p. A1, www.washingtontimes.com/​news/​2012/​jul/​26/​just-a-face-in-a-crowd-scans-pick-up-id-personal-d​/​?page=all. Facial recognition technology is opening up possibilities in business, advertising and law enforcement, but privacy questions persist.

Wiser, Mike , “Program Pushes Facial Recognition for Iowa Sex Offenders,” The Gazette (Iowa), Dec. 17, 2012, p. A1, thegazette.com/2012/12/17/program-pushes-facial-recognition-for-iowa-sex-offenders/. The Iowa Department of Public Safety wants sheriffs to use facial recognition software to digitize and analyze the faces of sex offenders.

Personal Relationships

Spenceley, Arlene , “Facebook Is Going Public; Not Me,” Tampa Bay (Fla.) Times, Feb. 12, 2012, p. P1, www.tampabay.com/​news/​perspective/​facebook-is-going-public-not-me/​1214560. Quitting Facebook can often teach people the things that are most necessary in life, says a columnist who quit using the site.

Timberg, Craig , “A World Away From Facebook,” The Washington Post, Aug. 5, 2012, p. G1, articles.washingtonpost.com/2012-08-03/business/35491933_1_facebook-board-member-katherine-losse-facebook-home-page. Excessive reliance on Facebook often forces people to lose out on more intimate relationships, says a former employee of the company.

Privacy

Acohido, Byron , “Social Networks Raise Workplace IT Worries,” USA Today, Feb. 29, 2012, p. B1, usatoday30.usatoday.com/MONEY/usaedition/2012-02-29-Cyber-Intruders_CV_U.htm. Many employers are restricting employees' usage of social media sites amid a rise in database breaches.

Kleinberg, Scott , “Online Privacy Settings Apply Offline Too,” Chicago Tribune, April 12, 2012, articles.chicagotribune.com/2012-04-12/news/ct-tribu-social-media-employment-20120412_1_social-media-erin-egan-privacy-expectations. Employers are undermining the privacy of Facebook users when they ask potential employees for their passwords.

Sengupta, Somini, and Evelyn Rusli , “Personal Data's Value? Facebook Is Set to Find Out,” The New York Times, Jan. 31, 2012, p. B1, www.nytimes.com/​2012/​02/​01/​technology/​riding-personal-data-facebook-is-going-public.html​?pagewanted=all&​amp;_r=0. Facebook's ultimate value as a company will be determined by how it can capitalize on its storage of personal data.

Go to top

Contacts

Culture Digitally blog
http://culturedigitally.org
National Science Foundation-funded blog where scholars and researchers discuss information technologies, including social media.

Electronic Frontier Foundation
454 Shotwell St., San Francisco CA 94110-1914
415-436-9333
https://www.eff.org
Nonprofit advocacy, information and legal-support group involved with technology-related privacy and civil rights issues.

Electronic Privacy Information Center
1718 Connecticut Ave., N.W., Suite 200, Washington, DC 20009
202-483-1140
www.epic.org
Nonprofit research center that studies privacy and civil liberties issues related to technology.

Facebook blog
http://blog.facebook.com
Announces and discusses Facebook policy changes.

MacArthur Research Network on Youth and Participatory Politics
http://ypp.dmlcentral.net
Foundation-funded academic research project that studies cultural participation in the online era and its effects on young people's political engagement.

Mashable
http://mashable.com
Online magazine that covers social media news.

Pew Internet and American Life Project
1615 L St., N.W., Suite 700, Washington, DC 20036
202-419-4500
http://pewinternet.org
Nonprofit foundation that studies social media use and trends.

Social Media Collective blog
http://socialmediacollective.org
A blog where researchers at the corporation-funded think tank Microsoft Research New England discuss social media issues.

Go to top

Footnotes

[1] “Oops. Mark Zuckerberg's Sister Has a Private Facebook Photo Go Public,” Tech blog, Forbes, Dec. 26, 2012, www.forbes.com/​sites/​kashmirhill/​2012/​12/​26/​oops-mark-zuckerbergs-sister-has-a-private-faceboo​k-photo-go-public; and Tom McCarthy, “Mark Zuckerberg's Sister Learns Life Lesson After Facebook Photo Flap,” US News blog, The Guardian [UK], Dec. 27, 2012, www.guardian.co.uk/​technology/​us-news-blog/​2012/​dec/​27/​facebook-founder-sister-zuckerberg-photo.

















[2] “State of the Media: The Social Media Report 2012,” Nielsen, http://blog.nielsen.com/​nielsenwire/​social/​2012.

















[3] Quoted in Bobbie Johnson, “Privacy No Longer a Social Norm, Says Facebook Founder,” The Guardian, Jan. 10, 2010, www.guardian.co.uk/​technology/​2010/​jan/​11/​facebook-privacy.

















[4] Larry Rosen, “Poke Me: How Social Networks Can Both Help and Harm Our Kids,” address, American Psychological Association 119th Annual Convention, Aug. 4-7, 2011, www.fenichel.com/​pokeme.shtml.

















[5] Quoted in Steve Eder, “Te'o Maintains Innocence in Hoax,” The New York Times, Jan. 19, 2013, www.nytimes.com/​2013/​01/​19/​sports/​ncaafootball/​notre-dame-athletic-director-jack-swarbrick-stands​-by-manti-teo.html?hpw.

















[6] Cathy J. Cohen and Joseph Kahne, “Participatory Politics: New Media and Youth Political Action,” MacArthur Research Network on Youth and Participatory Politics, June 2012, http://ypp.dmlcentral.net/​sites/​all/​files/​publications/​YPP_Survey_Report_FULL.pdf.



































[8] Kate Crawford, “Riots, Social Media and the Value of ‘First Responders,’” Social Media Collective Research blog, Aug. 12, 2011, http://socialmediacollective.org/​2011/​08/​12/​riots-social-media-and-the-value-of-​%E2​%80​%98first-responders​%E2​%80​%99.

















[9] Charles Harris, “Social Media for Social Good: A Guide to New Media for College Activists,” Honors College Capstone Experience/Thesis Projects, Paper 320, Western Kentucky University, May 5, 2011, http://digitalcommons.wku.edu/​stu_hon_theses/​320.

















[10] Golnaz Esfandiari, “The Twitter Devolution,” Foreign Policy, June 7, 2010, www.foreignpolicy.com/​articles/​2010/​06/​07/​the_twitter_revolution_that_wasnt.

















[11] Daniel Kreiss and Philip N. Howard, “New Challenges to Political Privacy: Lessons from the First U.S. Presidential Race in the Web 2.0 Era,” International Journal of Communication, 2010, pp. 1032–1050, http://ijoc.org/​ojs/​index.php/​ijoc/​article/​view/​870/​473.

















[12] Malcolm Gladwell, “Small Change,” The New Yorker, Oct. 4, 2010, pp. 42–49, www.gladwell.com/​pdf/​twitter.pdf.

















[13] Antti Oulasvirta, Tye Rattenbury, Lingyi Ma and Eeva Raita, “Habits Make Smartphone Use More Pervasive,” Journal of Personal and Ubiquitous Computing, June 16, 2011, www.hiit.fi/​u/​oulasvir/​scipubs/​Oulasvirta_2011_PUC_HabitsMakeSmartphoneUseMorePer​vasive.pdf.

















[14] Vivian Diller, “The Need for Connection in the Age of Anxiety,” The Huffington Post, Nov. 8, 2012, www.huffingtonpost.com/​vivian-diller-phd/​technology-anxiety_b_2083475.html?utm_hp_ref=colle​ge&​amp;ir=College.

















[15] “More Facebook Friends Means More Stress, Says Report,” press release, University of Edinburgh/EurekAlert, Nov. 26, 2012, www.eurekalert.org/​pub_releases/​2012-11/​uoe-mff112612.php.

















[16] Dave Winer, “Facebook Is Scaring Me,” Scripting blog, Sept. 24, 2011, http://scripting.com/​stories/​2011/​09/​24/​facebookIsScaringMe.html.

















[17] Carl I. Schulman, et al., “Influence of Social Networking Websites on Medical School and Residency Selection Process,” Postgraduate Medicine Journal, Nov. 8, 2012, www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/​pubmed/​23139411.

















[18] The case is Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission, 588 U.S. 310 (2010), www.supremecourt.gov/​opinions/​09pdf/​08-205.pdf.

















[19] Quoted in Erica Naone, “When Social Media Mining Gets It Wrong,” MIT Technology Review, Aug. 9, 2011, www.technologyreview.com/​news/​424965/​when-social-media-mining-gets-it-wrong.

















[20] Natasha Singer, “Your Online Attention, Bought in an Instant,” The New York Times, Nov. 17, 2012, www.nytimes.com/​2012/​11/​18/​technology/​your-online-attention-bought-in-an-instant-by-adve​rtisers.html?_r=0&​amp;adxnnl=1&​amp;ref=natashasinger&​amp;adxnnlx=1355878018-DcmDj3dpu5kPXSMf8kp0GQ.

















[21] “Facebook vs. Twitter vs. Instagram: What Do Teens Prefer?” mobileYouth Idea Factory blog, Nov. 14, 2012, www.mobileyouthideafactory.com/​facebook-vs-twitter-vs-instagram-what-do-teen.

















[22]Ibid.

















[23] For background, see Marcia Clemmitt, “Cybersocializing,” CQ Researcher, June 28, 2006, pp. 625–648, and “Social Networking,” CQ Researcher, Sept. 17, 2010, pp. 749–772.

















[24] Quoted in “Internet Communities,” Business Week Archives, May 5, 1997, www.businessweek.com/​1997/​18/​b35251.htm.

















[25]Ibid.

















[26] For background, see Danah M. Boyd and Nicole B. Ellison, “Social Network Sites: Definition, History, and Scholarship,” Journal of Computer-Mediated Communications, October 2007, article 11, http://jcmc.indiana.edu/​vol13/​issue1/​boyd.ellison.html.

















[27]Ibid.

















[28]Ibid.

















[29] Andreas M. Kaplan and Michael Haenlein, “Users of the World, Unite! The Challenges and Opportunities of Social Media,” Business Horizons, 2010, pp. 59–68, www.michaelhaenlein.eu/​Publications/​Kaplan,​%20Andreas​%20-​%20Users​%20of​%20the​%20world,​%20unite.pdf.

















[30]Ibid.

















[31] For background, see Kenneth Jost and Melissa J. Hipolit, “Blog Explosion,” CQ Researcher, June 9, 2006 (updated Sept. 14, 2010), pp. 505–528.

















[32] For background, see Nicholas Yee, “The Psychology of Massively Multi-User Online Role-Playing Games: Motivations, Emotional Investment, Relationships and Problematic Usage,” in Ralph Schroeder and Ann-Sofie Axelsson, eds., Avatars at Work and Play: Collaboration and Interaction in Shared Virtual Environments (2006), pp. 187–207, http://vhil.stanford.edu/​pubs/​2006/​yee-psychology-mmorpg.pdf. Also see Sarah Glazer, “Video Games,” CQ Researcher, Nov. 10, 2006, pp. 937–960; updated, Sept. 23, 2011.

















[33] Andreas M. Kaplan, “If You Love Something, Let It Go Mobile: Mobile Marketing and Mobile Social Media 4 × 4,” Business Horizons, 2012, pp. 129–139, http://smad341automotive.files.wordpress.com/​2012/​09/​going-mobile.pdf.

















[34]Ibid.

















[35] “Who Uses Social Networking Sites,” Pew Internet: Social Networking, Nov. 13, 2012, http://pewinternet.org/​Commentary/​2012/​March/​Pew-Internet-Social-Networking-full-detail.aspx.

















[36] “User-Driven Discontent,” MetaFilter, Aug. 26, 2010, www.metafilter.com/​95152/​Userdriven-discontent#3256046.

















[37] Tamara Shepherd, “Desperation and Datalogix: Facebook Six Months After Its IPO,” Culture Digitally blog, Nov. 12, 2012, http://culturedigitally.org/​2012/​11/​desperation-and-datalogix.

















[38] Sapna Maheshwari and Matt Townsend, “Email Still Whips Social Media as Marketing Tool,” Bloomberg News, The Columbus Dispatch, Dec. 24, 2012, www.dispatch.com/​content/​stories/​business/​2012/​12/​24/​email-still-whips-social-media-as-marketing-tool.h​tml.

















[39] Quoted in “User Revolt Causes Instagram to Keep Old Rules About Picture Rights,” Agence France-Presse, Herald Sun [Melbourne, Australia], Dec. 21, 2012, www.heraldsun.com.au/​technology/​user-revolt-causes-instagram-to-keep-old-rules-abo​ut-picture-rights/​story-fn5izo02-1226541837778.

















[40] Quoted in ibid.

















[41] Nick Bilton, “Facebook Changes Privacy Settings, Again,” Bits blog, The New York Times, Dec. 12, 2012, http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/​2012/​12/​12/​facebook-changes-privacy-settings-again; for background, see Carl Franzen, “Facebook Updates Privacy Controls: Better and Simpler, Or More Invasive?” Idea Lab, Talking Points Memo, Dec 12, 2012, http://idealab.talkingpointsmemo.com/​2012/​12/​facebook-changes-privacy-controls-better-and-simpl​er-or-more-invasiv.

















[42] Barbara Ortutay, “‘Graph Search’ Reviewed,” The Associated Press/ABQ Journal [Albuquerque], Jan. 16, 2013, www.abqjournal.com/​main/​2013/​01/​16/​abqnewsseeker/​updated-facebook-search-tool-a-review.html.

















[43]Ibid.

















[44] Somini Sengupta and Kevin O'Brien, “Facebook Can ID Faces, but Using Them Grows Tricky,” The New York Times, Sept. 21, 2012, www.nytimes.com/​2012/​09/​22/​technology/​facebook-backs-down-on-face-recognition-in-europe.​html?_r=0; Loek Essers, “Facebook to Delete All European Facial Recognition Data,” ComputerWorld/IDG News Service, Sept. 21, 2012, www.computerworld.com/​s/​article/​9231566/​Facebook_to_delete_all_European_facial_recognition​_data?taxonomyId=70; “Facebook Ireland Ltd: Report of Re-audit, Data Protection Commissioner,” Sept. 21, 2012, http://dataprotection.ie/​documents/​press/​Facebook_Ireland_Audit_Review_Report_21_Sept_2012.​pdf.

















[45]Ibid. (New York TImes.)

















[46] “Senate Judiciary Committee Approves Location Privacy Bill,” Electronic Privacy Information Center, http://epic.org/​2012/​12/​senate-judiciary-committee-app.html, and “Senate Committee Updates ECPA, Modifies Video Privacy Law,” Electronic Privacy Information Center, http://epic.org/​2012/​11/​senate-committee-updates-ecpa.html.

















[47] “Employer Access to Social Media Usernames and Passwords,” National Conference of State Legislatures, www.ncsl.org/​issues-research/​telecom/​employer-access-to-social-media-passwords.aspx.

















[48] Sean Gallagher, “Bill Banning Employer Facebook Snooping Introduced in Congress,” Ars Technica, April 28, 2012, http://arstechnica.com/​tech-policy/​2012/​04/​bill-banning-employer-facebook-snooping-introduced​-in-congress; and H.R. 5050 (112th), “Social Networking Online Protection Act,” GovTrack, www.govtrack.us/​congress/​bills/​112/​hr5050.

















[49] Quoted in Leslie Katz, “Progress for Calif. Bill to Stop Employers' Social-media Snooping,” CNET News, May 10, 2012, http://news.cnet.com/​8301-1023_3-57432298-93/​progress-for-calif-bill-to-stop-employers-social-m​edia-snooping.

















[50] Philip Gordon and Lauren Woon, “Re-thinking and Rejecting Social Media ‘Password Protection’ Legislation,” Privacy blog, July 10, 2012, http://privacyblog.littler.com/​2012/​07/​articles/​state-privacy-legislation/​rethinking-and-rejecting-social-media-password-pro​tection-legislation.

















Go to top

About the Author






Staff writer Marcia Clemmitt is a veteran social-policy reporter who previously served as editor in chief of Medicine & Health and staff writer for The Scientist. She has also been a high school math and physics teacher. She holds a liberal arts and sciences degree from St. John's College, Annapolis, and a master's degree in English from Georgetown University. Her recent reports include “Computer Hacking” and “Internet Regulation.”

Go to top


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Document APA Citation — See Alternate Citation Style
Clemmitt, M. (2013, January 25). Social media explosion. CQ Researcher, 23, 81-104. Retrieved from http://library.cqpress.com/cqresearcher/
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Document ID: cqresrre2013012500
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqresearcher/cqresrre2013012500
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------





ISSUE TRACKER for Related Reports









Privacy






Oct. 25, 2013

Big Data and Privacy





Aug. 30, 2013

Government Surveillance





Jan. 25, 2013

Social Media Explosion





Sep. 17, 2010

Social Networking





Nov. 06, 2009

Online Privacy





Nov. 17, 2006

Privacy in Peril





Jun. 15, 2001

Privacy Under Attack





Nov. 06, 1998

Internet Privacy





Nov. 19, 1993

Privacy in the Workplace





Apr. 17, 1992

Politicians and Privacy





BROWSE RELATED TOPICS:








Computers and the Internet








READER COMMENTS
(0)


No comments on this report yet.Embed Ayo Technology Ayo Technology Revelries edm