23 ContributorsRUN UP! Lyrics[Intro: Jake Hill]
Yeah, huh
(Ayy Kirk, this beat go crazy)
Huh, yeah

[Chorus: Jake Hill]
I bet you won't run up, keep that blade tucked up
Word to ya motha', I leave her in the gutta', aha
Pussy boy you talk, but I can't hear a fuckin' thing
I got money, you got problems, look what you have done to me, bitch
What you want? What you got?
Everything I am is something that you're not
What you talkin' b-b-bout'?
I left em' dropped, I left em' sleepin'
They wanna run up on me but I left their body leakin'

[Verse 1: Jake Hill]
This ain't my first rodeo
Mothafucka' slash, slash turn you to a holy ghost (Boo)
Top of the mountain lookin' down on you
Send some flames to the ground like they call me Zeus
I got a grudge that I hold and its botherin' me
I lеt the blood fill my soul, damn it's swallowin' me
You gettin' sickly from thе envy, it's no secret that we can see
I am your God, now bow to me, bitch
You might also like[Bridge: Jake Hill]
Yeah, let it burn
Send you to the witches, cause you bitches never learn
I can hear your heart beatin', you actin' kinda soft
I got plenty good reasons just to watch your body drop

[Verse 2: Josh A & Jake Hill]
I-I-I ain't budgin' for a broke mothafucker, wanna press me
I love it man I choke, motherfuckas wanna check me
You know I'm a deadbeat, hiding backseat
I'ma put you in the dirt man, if you really wanna drag me
Like little fuckin pussy need a check, huh?
Lost all your respect, huh?
Comin' for my head, huh?
Now you got no friends, huh?
What you gonna do?
Actin' like a bitch is all you ever really do, it's nothin' new

[Chorus: Jake Hill]
I-I bet you won't run up, keep that blade tucked up
Word to ya motha', I leave her in the gutt'a, aha
Pussy boy you talk, but I can't hear a fuckin' thing
I got money, you got problems, look what you have done to me, bitch
What you want? What you got?
Everything I am is something that you're not
What you talkin' b-b-bout'?
I left em' dropped, I left em' sleepin'
They wanna run up on on me but I left their body leakin'
[Outro: Jake Hill]
I- I am your God- God-G-God
I am your God- I-I-I-I
I am your God, now bow to me22Embed