1 ContributorAlexanderJamesM’s Top Songs of 2011 LyricsSongs that just missed the cut, bit I still love em!Taylor swift - ours
Avril Lavigne - What The Hell
Glee Cast - Turning Tables
Avril Lavigne - Smile
Katy Perry - LFN (TGIF)
Gym Class Heroes ft. Adam Levine - Stereo Hearts25 - 1125. Karmin - Crash Your Party
24. Dev - In The Dark
23. Leona Lewis - Collide
22. David Guetta ft. Usher - Without You
21. Demi locate - give your heart a break
20. Nicki Minaj ft. Rihanna - Fly
19 Chritina Perri - A Thousand Years
18. Selena Gomez - Who Says
17. Jessie J - PriceTag
16. Gavin Degraw - Not Over You
15. demi lovato - skyscraper
14. Britnеy Spears - Til The World Ends
13. Nicki Minaj - Superbass
12. Adеle - Set Fire to the Rain
11.  Alexandra stan - mr saxobeat10 - 110. Katy Perry - The One That Got Away
Personally think this is one of the best single's she's ever released. I love the message of the song and love that she decided to release it as a single because it means a lot to Katy and a lot of people can identify with the song

9. Kelly Clarkson - What Doesn't Kill You (Stronger)
Everything about this song screams "single!", the beat, lyrics, everything!

8. Avril Lavigne - Wish You Were Here
This song means a lot to me and I can definitely identify with its lyrics
7.  Nicole Scherzinger - Don't Hold our Breath
6. Jessie J - Domino
Love everything about this song <3

5. Rihanna - We Found Love (ft. Calvin Harris)
4. Maroon 5 ft. Christina Aguilera - Moves Like Jagger
THE summer song of the year, there was no way I couldn't add it to my top ten. The beat and the vocals hook you on the first listen, and the fact that they got Christina on the song made it even more better!

3. Katy Perry - E.T
This song has the most plays from her Teenage Dream album, so there was no way I couldn't add it to my top 3 of 2011 (The version WITHOUT Kanye) When the video came out, it made me love the song even more. The beat, lyrics, and vocals make this song pop perfection <3

2. Lady Gaga - You and I
I've loved this song ever since she performed it on the Today show back in 2010. When the album version came out, I was ecstatic at how amazing it sounded and the instrumentation of it I thought was perfect. My second favorite song of her career.

And my choice for the #1 song of 2011 is...
1. Lady Gaga - Marry The Night
This is probably one of my favorite single's she's ever released. The song of course means a lot to her, but the  vocals and instrumentation in this song are fucking amazing IMO. Gaga never seem to disappoint me with her single released.Embed