101 ContributorsDo For Love Lyrics[Intro: 2Pac]
Turn it up loud
Hahaha, ahahaha, hey, man
You a little sucker for love, Pac!
Word up, hahahahaha (A sucker for love)

[Verse 1: 2Pac]
I should've seen you was trouble right from the start, taught me so many lessons
How not to mess with broken hearts, so many questions
When this began, we was the perfect match, perhaps
We had some problems, but we workin' at it, and now
The arguments are gettin' loud, I wanna stay
But I can't help from walkin' out, just throw it away
Just take my hand and understand if you could see
I never planned to be your man, it just wasn't me
But now I'm searchin' for commitment, in other arms
I wanna shelter you from harm, don't be alarmed
Your attitude was the cause, you got me stressin'
Soon as I open up the door with your jealous questions
Like, where can I be? You're killin' me with your jealousy
Now my ambition's to be free
I can't breathe, 'cause soon as I leave, it's like a trap
I hear you callin' me to come back, I'm a sucker for love

[Chorus: Eric Williams & 2Pac]
What you won't do, do for love? (That's right, sucker for love)
You tried everything, but you don't give up (Sucker for love)
What you won't do, do for love?
You tried everything, but you don't give up
You might also like[Verse 2: 2Pac]
Just when I thought I broke away and I'm feelin' happy, you tried to trap me
Said you're pregnant and guess who the daddy? Don't wanna fall for it
But in this case what could I do? So now I'm back
To makin' promises to you, tryna keep it true
What if I'm wrong? A trick to keep me holdin' on
Tryna be strong and in the process, keep you goin'
I'm 'bout to lose my composure, I'm gettin' close
To packin' up and leavin' notes, and gettin' ghost
Tell me who knows a peaceful place where I can go
To clear my head, I'm feelin' low, losin' control
My heart is sayin', "Leave!" Oh, what a tangled web we weave
When we conspire to conceive, and now
You gettin' calls at the house, guess you cheatin'
That's all I need to hear, 'cause I'm leavin', I'm out the door
Never no more you will see me, this is the end
'Cause now I know you've been cheatin', I'm a sucker for love
[Chorus: Eric Williams & 2Pac]
What you won't do, do for love? (Sucker for love)
You tried everything, but you don't give up (Don't, sucker for love)
What you won't do, do for love? (Oh, yeah, sucker for love)
You tried everything, but you don't give up (Oh, baby)

[Verse 3: 2Pac]
Now he left you with scars, tears on your pillow and you still stay
As you sit and pray, hopin' the beatings'll go away
It wasn't always a hit-and-run relationship
It used to be love, happiness and companionship
Remember when I treated you good
I moved you up to the hills, out the ills of the ghetto hood
Me and you, a happy home, when it was on
I had a love to call my own
I should've seen you was trouble but I was lost, trapped in your eyes
Preoccupied with gettin' tossed, no need to lie
You had a man and I knew it, you told me
Don't worry 'bout it, we can do it now, I'm under pressure
Make a decision 'cause I'm waitin', when I'm alone
I'm on the phone havin' secret conversations, huh
I wanna take your misery, replace it with happiness
But I need your faith in me, I'm a sucker for love
[Chorus: Eric Williams & 2Pac]
What you won't do, do for love? (What you won't do for love, sucker for love)
You tried everything, but you don't give up (That ain't right, I'm a sucker for love)
What you won't do, do for love?
You tried everything, but you don't give up (No)

[Outro: Eric Williams & 2Pac]
What you won't do, do for love? (Sucker for love)
You tried everything, but you don't give up (Sucker for love)
What you won't do, do for love? (Sucker for love)
You tried everything, but you don't give up (Sucker for love)
What you won't do? (Do for love)
You tried everything, but you don't give up
What you won't do? (Do for love)
You tried everything, but you don't give up
Do for love, yeah, baby, yeah
Do for love52Embed