33 ContributorsSuper Bowl LVI Halftime Show LyricsSetlist"The Next Episode" (Dr. Dre and Snoop Dogg)
"California Love" (Dr. Dre and Snoop Dogg)
"In Da Club" (50 Cent)
"Family Affair" (Mary J. Blige)
"No More Drama" (Mary J. Blige)
"m.A.A.d City" (Kendrick Lamar)
"Alright" (Kendrick Lamar)
"Forgot About Dre" (Dr. Dre and Eminem)
"Lose Yourself" (Eminem and Anderson .Paak on drums)
"I Ain't Mad At Cha" (instrumental interlude) (Dr. Dre)
"Still D.R.E." (Dr. Dre, Snoop Dogg, Kendrick Lamar, Eminem, Mary J. Blige, and 50 Cent)["The Next Episode" — Dr. Dre feat. Snoop Dogg]

[Chorus: Snoop Dogg and Dr. Dre]
La-da-da-da-dah
It's the one and only D-O-double-G (Snoop Dogg!)
La-da-da-da-dah
You know I'm mobbin' with the D-R-E (Yeah, yeah, yeah)
Y'all know what this is, but can y'all make some noise for my man, Snoop Dogg? Come on, now, louder, louder!

[Verse: Snoop Dogg]
Top Dogg, bite 'em all, yeah I'm burning it up
D-P-G-C, go ahead and turn it on up
C-P-T, L-B-C, yeah, we hookin' back up
And when they bang this in the club, baby, you got to get up
Thug homies, drug homies, yeah, they givin' it up
Lowlife, yo' life, boy, we givin' it up
Takin' chances while we dancin' in the party for sure
Slipped my girl a forty-fo' when she crept in the back do'
This chick is lookin' at me strange, but you know I don't care
Step up in this mother- just a-swangin' my hair
Trick, quit talkin', Crip walk if you down with the set
Take a bullet with some - and take this dope on this jet
Out of town, put it down for the Father of Rap
And if you happen to get cracked—shut yo' trap
Come back, get back, that's the part of success
If you believe in the S, you'll be relievin' your stress
[Musical Interlude with elements of "California Love"]

[Chorus: Snoop Dogg & Dr. Dre]
La-da-da-da-dah
It's the one and only D-R-E
Dr. Dre, you little busters!
La-da-da-da-dah
You know I'm riding with the D-O double G
West Coast make some noise!
["California Love" — Dr. Dre and Snoop Dogg]

[Intro: Snoop Dogg]
Come on, put your hands in the air
Everybody put your hands in the air
Come on, everybody put your hands in the air
Put your hands way up in the air

[Verse: Dr. Dre and Snoop Dogg]
Now let me welcome everybody to the Wild Wild West
A state that's untouchable like Eliot Ness
The track hits your eardrum like a slug through your chest
Pack a vest for your Jimmy in the city of sex
We in that sunshine state where the bomb-ass hemp be
A place where you never find a dance floor empty
And pimps be on a mission for them greens
Lean mean money-making-machines servin' fiends
I been in the game for 30 years makin' rap tunes
Say what?
Ever since honeys was wearin' Sassoon
Now it's '22, they clock me and watch me
Diamonds shinin', lookin' like I robbed Liberace
It's all good, from Diego to the Bay
Your city is the bomb if your city gettin' pay
Throw up a finger if you feel the same way
Dre puttin' it down for Californ-i-a
[Chorus: Roger Troutman]
California knows how to party
California knows how to party

["In Da Club" — 50 Cent]

[Intro]
Go, go, go, go, go, go
Go shawty, it's your birthday
We gon' party like it's your birthday
And we gon' sip Bacardi like it's your birthday
And you know we don't give a f-, it's not your birthday

[Chorus]
You can find me in the club, bottle full of bub'
Mama, I got what you need if you need to feel the buzz
I'm into havin' sex, I ain't into makin' love
So come give me a hug if you into gettin' rubbed

[Verse 1]
When I pull up out front, you see the Benz on dubs
When I roll twenty deep, it's always drama in the club
Yeah they heard I - with Dre, now they wanna show me love
When you sell like Eminem you get plenty of groupie love
Look homie, ain't nothin' changed: hoes down, G's up
I see Xzibit in the cut, hey man, roll that weed up! (Roll it!)
If you watch how I move, you'll mistake me for a player or pimp
Been hit with a few shells, but I don't walk with a limp (I'm aight)
In the hood in L.A. they sayin', "50, you hot" (Uh-huh)
They like me, I want 'em to love me like they love Pac
But holla in New York, fo sho they'll tell you I'm loco (Yeah)
And the plan is to put the rap game in a chokehold (Uh-huh)
I'm fully focused, man, my money on my mind
Got a mil' out the deal and I'm still on the grind (Woo)
Now Shorty said she feelin' my style, she feelin' my flow (Uh-huh)
Her girlfriend with her, they bi and they ready to go (Okay)
[Chorus]
You can find me in the club, bottle full of bub'
Mama, I got what you need if you need to feel the buzz
I'm into havin' sex, I ain't into makin' love
So come give me a hug if you into gettin' rubbed
You can find me in the club

["Family Affair" — Mary J. Blige]

[Chorus]
Let's get it crunk up on
Have fun up on up in this dancery
We got y'all open, now ya floatin'
So you gots to dance for me

[Verse 1]
Come on, everybody, get on up
'Cause you know we gots to get it crunk
Mary J. is in the spot tonight
And I'ma make it feel alright (Make it feel alright)
Come on, baby, just party with me
Let loose and set your body free (Oh)
Leave your situations at the door
But when you step inside, jump on the floor

[Chorus]
Let's get it crunk up on (Let's get crunk up on)
Have fun up on up in this dancery
We got y'all open, now ya floatin'
So you gots to dance for me
Don't need no hateration
Holleration in this dancery (Holler, holler, holler)
Let's get it percolatin', while you're waitin'
So just dance for me

We don't need no haters

["No More Drama" — Mary J Blige]

[Verse 1]
Broken heart again
Another lesson learn
Better know your friends
Or else you will get burned
Gotta count on me
'Cause I can guarantee that I'll be fine

[Chorus]
(No more pain) No more pain, no more pain
(No more pain)
No more games messin' with my mind
(No drama)
No more, no more
(No more in my life)
No more, no more
No more, no more
No more

(No more drama)
No more
I'm tired of, I want this drama
(No more drama)
Go ahead, go ahead and
(No more drama)
You demons get up out of my face
(No more drama)
Go get out of my
(No more drama)
I'm about to lose my mind
Ahhh!

No more
(No more drama)
No more drama
(No more drama)
No more, no more
(No more drama)
Heyy
No more
No more drama

I need a peace of mind
I need a peace of mind
No more

[Interlude: "m.A.A.d City" — Kendrick Lamar]

[Intro Sample: Kendrick Lamar and ScHoolboy Q]
(If Pirus and Crips all got along
They'd probably gun me down by the end of this song
Seem like the whole city go against me
Every time I'm in the street, I hear—
Yawk! Yawk! Yawk! Yawk!
Man down, where you from?
—who you know, where you from?
Where your grandma stay, huh, my—?
This mad city I run—)

(Rhythmic Vocalizing)

["Alright" — Kendrick Lamar]

[Intro]
Alls my life, I has to fight
Alls my life, I—
Hard times like, "Yah!"
Bad trips like, "Yah!"
Nazareth
I'm on one, you on one
God got us, we gon' be alright, ho!

[Chorus]
We gon' be alright (Ahh)
We gon' be alright (Oh)
We gon' be alright
Do you hear me, do you feel me? We gon' be alright
Huh?
We gon' be alright
Huh?
We gon' be alright
Do you hear me, do you feel me? We gon' be al—

[Verse]
Uh, and when I wake up
I recognize you're looking at me for the pay stub
But homicide looking at you from the face down
MAC-11 even boom with the bass down
Schemin'—let me tell you 'bout my life
Painkillers only put me in the twilight
Where pretty, uh, uh, is the highlight
Now tell my momma I love her, but this what I like, Lord knows
Twenty of 'em in my Chevy, tell 'em all to come and get me
Reaping everything I sow, karma coming heavy
No preliminary hearing on my record
Tell 'em I'm a gangster in silence for the record, uh
Tell the world I think I've gone cray
Drown inside my vices all day
Won't you please believe when I—
Won't you please believe when I—

[Pre-Chorus]
Wouldn't you know
We been hurt, down before
Ah, when our pride was low
Lookin' at the world like, "Where do we go?"
Ah, and we hate—
Wanna kill us dead in the street fo sho'
Ah, I'm at the preacher door
Knees gettin' weak, gun might blow
We gon' be al—(right)

[(Freestyle) — Kendrick Lamar]

[Interlude: Kendrick Lamar and (back-up dancers)]
35 summers in the making', stop fakin', you forgot about Dre (Alright)
35 summers in the makin', I'm talkin' N.W.A (Alright)
35 summers in the makin', stop fakin', you forgot about Dre (Alright)
35 summers in the makin', I'm talkin' N.W.A (Alright)
["Forgot About Dre" — Dr. Dre (feat. Eminem)]

[Chorus: Eminem]
Nowadays, everybody wanna talk like they got somethin' to say
But nothin' comes out when they move their lips
Just a bunch of gibberish
And motherf- act like they forgot about Dre
Nowadays, everybody wanna talk like they got somethin' to say
But nothin' comes out when they move their lips
Just a bunch of gibberish
And motherf- act like they forgot about Dre

["Lose Yourself" — Eminem]

[Intro]
Whoa
If you had one shot
One opportunity to seize everything you ever wanted
One moment—would you capture it?

[Verse 1]
His palms are sweaty, knees weak, arms are heavy
There's vomit on his sweater already, mom's spaghetti
He's nervous, but on the surface he looks calm and ready
To drop bombs, but he keeps on forgetting
What he wrote down, the whole crowd goes so loud
He opens his mouth, but the words won't come out
He's choking, how? Everybody's joking now
The clock's run out, time's up, over—blaow!
Snap back to reality, ope there goes gravity, ope
There goes Rabbit, he choked, he's so mad but he won't
Give up that easy, no, he won't have it, he knows
His whole back's to these ropes, it don't matter, he's dope
He knows that but he's broke, he's so stagnant, he knows
When he goes back to this mobile home, that's when it's
Back to the lab again yo, this old rhapsody
Better go capture this moment and hope it don't pass him, and

[Chorus]
You better lose yourself in the music
The moment, you own it, you better never let it go (Go!)
You only get one shot, do not miss your chance to blow
This opportunity comes once in a lifetime, yo
You better lose yourself in the music
The moment, you own it, you better never let it go (Go!)
You only get one shot, do not miss your chance to blow
This opportunity comes once in a lifetime
You better…
(Lose yourself)
Los Angeles, make some noise!
You better lose yourself in the music
The moment, you own it, you better never let it go (Go!)
You only get one shot, do not miss your chance to blow
This opportunity comes once in a lifetime, yo
You better lose yourself in the music
The moment, you own it, you better never let it go (Go!)
You only get one shot, do not miss your chance to blow
This opportunity comes once in a lifetime
You better…
(Lose yourself)

["I Ain't Mad At Cha" — 2Pac]

[Instrumental Interlude]

["Still D.R.E." — Dr. Dre (feat. Snoop Dogg)]

[Intro: Snoop Dogg and Dr. Dre]
Still Snoop Dogg and D.R.E. (Check)
Guess who's back?
I see you still doin' it
Please make some noise for Dr. Dre!

[Verse 1: Dr. Dre & Snoop Dogg]
It's still Dre Day (Ah?) AK (Ah?)
Though I've grown a lot, can't keep it home a lot
'Cause when I frequent the spots that I'm known to rock
You hear the bass from the truck when I'm on the block
Ladies, they pay homage, but haters say Dre fell off
How, homie, my last album was The Chronic?
They wanna know if he still got it
They say rap's changed, they wanna know how I feel about it
(If you ain't up on thangs)
Dr. Dre is the name, I'm ahead of my game (Still)
Still puffin' my leaves, still touchin' the beats
Still not lovin' police
Still rock my khakis with a cuff and a crease
Still got love for the streets, reppin' 213
Still the beats bang, still doin' my thang
Since I left ain't too much changed (Still)

[Chorus: Snoop Dogg & Dr. Dre]
I'm representin' for them gangstas all across the world
(Still) Hittin' them corners in them low-lows, girl
Still takin' my time to perfect the beat
And I still got love for the streets, it's the D.R.E.
I'm representin' for them gangstas all across the world
(Still) Hittin' them corners in them low-lows, girl
Still takin' my time to perfect the beat
And I still got love for the streets, it's the D.R.E.8Embed