137 ContributorsCan’t C Me Lyrics[Intro: George Clinton]
The blind stares of a million pairs of eyes
Lookin' hard but won't realize
That they will never see the P!
You must be goin' blind

[Verse 1: 2Pac]
Give me my money in stacks and lace my bitches with dime figures
Real niggas fingers on nickel-plated 9 triggers
Must see my enemies defeated
I catch 'em while they coked up and weeded
Open fire, now them niggas bleedin'
See me in flesh and test and get your chest blown
Straight out the West, don't get blown
My adversaries cry like hoes, open and shut like doors
Is you a friend or foe? Nigga, you ain't know?
They got me stressed out on Death Row
I've seen money, but baby, I've gots to get mo'
You screamin', "Go 2Pac!" and I ain't stoppin' till I'm well-paid
Bail's paid now, nigga, look what hell made
Visions of cops and sirens, niggas open fire
Bunch of Thug Life niggas on the rise, until I die
Ask me why I'm a boss player gettin' high
And when I'm rollin' by niggas can't see me!

[Chorus: George Clinton]
The stares of a million pairs of eyes
And you'll never realize
You can't see me
You might also like[Verse 2: 2Pac]
Been gettin' word that these square motherfuckers with nerves
Sayin' they can get with us, but picture me gettin' served
My own mama say I'm thugged out
My shit be poppin' out the record store as if it was a drug house
My lyrics bang like a Crip or Blood
Nigga, what? It ain't nothin' but a party when we thug
And there I was, a young nigga with heart, ain't had shit to lose
Pullin' my pistol on them fools, you know the rules
D-R-E, you got me heated; my words like a penitentiary dick
Hittin' bitches where it's most needed
Money and weed, Alizé and Hennessy
To my thug niggas in lock down: witness me
Bail on these hoes in floss-mode
The life of a boss player, fuck what you thought though
My enemies deceased
Die like a bitch when my album hit the streets; niggas can't see me!

[Chorus: George Clinton & 2Pac]
Niggas can't see me
They can't see me
Which way did he go, George?
Which way did he go?
Oh!! Which way did he go?
Which way did he go?
[Verse 3: 2Pac]
You niggas made a mistake
You should've never put my rhymes with Dre
Them thug niggas have arrived and it's judgement day
Hey homie, if you feel me
Tell them tricks that shot me that they missed, they ain't kill me
I can make a motherfucker shake, rattle and roll
I'm full of liquor, thug nigga, quick to jab at them hoes
And I can make you jealous niggas famous
Fuck around with 2Pac and see how good a nigga's aim is
I'm just a rich motherfucker from the way
If this rappin' bring me money, then I'm rappin' till I'm paid
I'm gettin' green like I'm supposed to
Nigga, I holla at these hoes and see how many I can go through
Look to the star and visualize my debut
Niggas know me, player, I gotta stay true
Don't be a dumb motherfucker 'cause it's crazy after dark
Where the true thug-niggas see your heart; niggas can't see me!

[Interlude: 2Pac]
Yo, check this out: stay off his dick

[Outro: George Clinton & 2Pac]
Niggas can't see me
Right before your eyes, I'll disappear from here
You niggas can't see me
You can't see me
I know it's hard nigga, I'm all up in your face
But you still can't see me
You can't see me
All up in your range, but niggas can't see me
20/20 vision won't visualize
I'm in the flesh, baby, but you can't see me
All those glasses won't help you realize
You blinded, you blinded, you can't see me
You can't see me
Thug Life, baby
Don't believe everything you read! Alizé and weed
You can't see me, right before your very eyes
You won't even visualize, you can't see me
Dr. Dre all day, 2Pac
Niggas can't see me
I dedicate this to you punk motherfuckers!
This one's for you, BIG baby
'Cause you bitch-ass niggas can't see me
Niggas can't see me
You can't see me

See no evil, hear no evil, speak no evil
You won't see me
Yeah, first you see me, now you don't
Wanna see me, but you won't
Come to see me, but you can't
Oh, you can't see me
You can't see me
Right between your eyes and you'll never realize
Right before your eyes, you won't even realize
Visualize what you can't see52Embed