154 ContributorsTranslationsEnglishРусскийPortuguêsDeutschCity of Gods Lyrics[Chorus: Alicia Keys & Playboi Carti]
New York City, please go easy on me tonight
New York City, please go easy on this heart of mine (What?)

[Verse 1: Fivio Foreign & Playboi Carti]
Yeah, look, huh, nigga, this my shit
Welcome to the city of Gods (What?)
Pop was the king of New York, now I'm the nigga in charge
Only the drillers, the city is ours
We found out the opps and we pick 'em apart
I give 'em my time so I give 'em my heart
If the city love me, then I'm really a star (What?)

[Chorus: Alicia Keys]
New York City, please go easy on me tonight
Nеw York City, please go easy on this hеart of mine
'Cause I'm losing my lover to the arms of another
New York City, please go easy on me

[Verse 2: Fivio Foreign & Playboi Carti]
Yeah, look, this is the city of money and violence
Everything we do is gon' come with a challenge
Every bitch you fuck is gon' come with a balance (What?)
Every shooter with me is coming in silence (What?)
And you niggas better pick a side (Better pick a side)
You niggas side hoppin' (You niggas side hoppin')
If I want 'em to not let you come into the city, it's my option (Baow)
This is the home of the fly shoppin' (Yeah)
This where the bitches gon' watch pockets (Yeah)
When I'm on TV, I gotta look good
'Cause I know the whole block watchin'
If you chill with the opps, we is not vibing
If I see 'em in person, we Fox 5 'em
Yeah, the police is on us, we not stoppin'
(Yeah, the police is on us, we not stoppin', nah)
This is the town of the big drip (Big drip), smooth talk (Smooth talk, ha)
Milly Rock (Milly Rock), Shmoney Dance (Shmoney Dance), Woo Walk (Woo)
You will not survive being too soft (No)
Been a long time, we took a new loss (No)
Shooters shootin' 'til we got a new corpse (Baow)
If we stop then we lettin' it cool off (Baow, boom)
You might also like[Chorus: Alicia Keys]
New York City, please go easy on me tonight
New York City, please go easy on this heart of mine
'Cause I'm losing my lover to the arms of another
New York City, please go easy on me

[Verse 3: Kanye West & Playboi Carti]
We went off the grid (What?)
We ain't watch the throne, we took it
We went viral on 'em, they lookin'
It's a Sunday Service in Brooklyn (What?)
It's the city that come with the lights
I'm with the drillers that come with the night
They ain't do four years in college, but they'll do twenty-five to life
We make money every night (What?)
Never too big of a price (What?)
After I buy the Chicago Bulls (What?), I'ma go and link with Mike (What?)
And if I let 'em have my wife, niggas should thank me
With this Balenciaga and Balenci' boots and a new blue Yankee
This is Ye, I'm so focused, throw on a mask, no COVID
I'ma turn your life to a meme, let Justin LaBoy post it
You got a album? Postpone it
I drop two and they both going
I got a feeling they in they feelings
They filmin' a show, but won't show it
You gotta watch me in slow motion, I'm in that wide-body Benz
I go back to college, do an album, and then drop out again
Took me a minute to get here, my vision is crystal clear
Ayy, Fivi', excuse me, but this the feature of the year
I feel like Sinatra in these streets, me and Drizzy, we at peace
This the backpack with the Polo and the first Jesus piece
I'm from the Chi' but I'm always New York
In the city, they treat me like Jesus is walkin'
I been through the pain and all of the torment
I'm sayin' His name, I make that important (What?)
Now it's time to give 'em hell
Ask my staff, I pay 'em well
This afternoon, a hundred goons pullin' up to SNL (What?)
When I pull up, it's dead on arrival
They act like they love you, they don't even like you
They throw a party, won't even invite you
I seen the same thing happen to Michael
When you black and you rich, they sayin' you psycho (What?)
It's like a cycle
If you text me anything hype, you better text back and say it's a typo
The city of Gods, no city is like you
This the new New York, Ye is the GOAT
Fivi' is viral and this is the B.I.B.L.E (What?)
[Chorus: Alicia Keys & Playboi Carti]
New York City, please go easy on me tonight (What the fuck? The fuck?)
(What the fuck?) New York City, please go easy on this heart of mine
'Cause I'm losing my lover to the arms of another
New York City, please go easy on me

[Outro: Alicia Keys]
Don't leave me, go easy, go easy, go easy
Don't leave me, go easy, go easy, go easy
Don't leave me, go easy, go easy, go easy
New York City, please go easy on me61Embed