24 ContributorsBreak You Off Lyrics[Chorus: Musiq Soulchild]
I'm coming to break you off (beat started.....start-started..)
I'm coming to break you off (beat started.....start-started..)
I'm coming to break you off (beat started.....start-started..)
Yeah baby

[Verse 1: Black Thought]
Bad Misses, Throwing raspberry kisses on me
You looking for directions?
Girl I feel your vision on me
Just don't let him see you sweat'n
And we ain't suppose to be involved
Knowing when we get it off, Girl I mean it all
Keeping you fiending 'til you taking it tossed
And when I'm breaking it off
Its no denying the fact it's wrong
Cause you got a man who's probably playing his part
You probably breaking his heart
He trying to figure the reason you gon'
Is it because he's superficial
Or is he too submissive
Or did I come along and hit you with the futuristic
Or is it cause you really couldn't see a future with him
All he about is paper, never took the time with you to listen
You want it gripped up, flipped, and thrown
And get stripped and shown, the way to get in the zone
The cost, dealing with this you won't be takin' a loss
You need to leave him alone
And roll with the one who's breaking you off
See The Roots LiveGet tickets as low as $67You might also like[Chorus: Musiq Soulchild]
I'm coming to break you off (beat started.....start-started..)
I'm coming to break you off (beat started.....start-started..)
I'm coming to break you off (beat started.....start-started..)
Yeah baby

[Verse 2: Black Thought]
Brother down the hall
The one you bound to call
Workaholic so really I'm rarely around at all
What we started got serious repercussions in court
We had a chance to turn back, but love that was long
Late nights, twistin' somethin' listenin' to niecey sing
She got the beefy, you tellin' me you deeply appreciate the company
The time we spend 'I feel the same; It's a shame you ain't my girlfriend'
Cause listen: you need a brother with that physical fix
That come through in a mix for you with no head tricks or fraud
You need a new position, somethin' to get you open like its Eucalyptus got you ready to go for your's
Come on and work wit' meh', you won't get hurt wit' meh': Just keep it real and you'll get broken off certainleh' (certainly)
Dealing with this you won't be takin' a loss; you need to leave I'm alone and roll with the one whose breakin' you off

[Chorus: Musiq Soulchild]
I'm coming to break you off (beat started.....start-started..)
I'm coming to break you off (beat started.....start-started..)
I'm coming to break you off (beat started.....start-started..)
Yeah baby
[Verse 3: Black Thought]
Rollin' down the highway, listenin' to Sade sing the way the smooth operator move my way
You sitting beside me
Looking like Friday Foster
Pam Grier structure look at your body
Keep each other thirsty
Kisses like Hershey
But lips is sealed
Cause we don't need the controversy
I say I'm in town, You say you want it in the worst way
You probably told your man it was your it was ya lil's birthday
Meanwhile, Its champagne chilling in ice
You ready for the freakiest things you done in ya life?
We breaking down like we Road dogs pullin' a heist
You making sounds like the vibe got you reaching your heights
Prepare for flight, this is your captain
I'm getting strapped in
Theres no denying the strength
Of'dis attraction, girl
Working with this you won't be taking a loss
So stop fooling your man and roll with the one
Who's breaking you off

[Bridge: Musiq Soulchild]
Baby, Baby, Baby... don't you worry bout...
Nothing cause I'm coming to handle you no doubt
Whenever you want, that thing you need, I got it
I'm there and I aim to please
I'm coming over to give it to you..
Baby... baby...
[Chorus: Musiq Soulchild]
I'm coming to break you off (beat started.....start-started..)
I'm coming to break you off (beat started.....start-started..)
I'm coming to break you off (beat started.....start-started..)
Yeah Baby3Embed