72 ContributorsBreak Ya Neck Lyrics[Intro: Busta Rhymes]
Yeah, check it out, see
The only thing you need to do right here is
Is nod your fuckin' head
Yeah, yeah
Break ya fuckin' neck, bitches
Yeah, yeah, here we go now
Where we goin' now? Where we goin' now?
Give it away, give it away, give it away now
Give it away, give it away, give it away now
Just give it away, nigga, yeah, here we go now

[Verse 1: Busta Rhymes]
Tell me, what you really wanna do? Come here, Ma
Talk to a nigga, talk to me
You look like you could really give it to a nigga
From the way you talk and the way ya try to walk for me
The way you really try to put it on a dawg
Doin' it like ya never did before for me
The way you break yo' back, and I break yo' neck
And the way you try to put it on the floor for me
(Come on!) Come on (Come on!)
Oh, yeah, tell me where my niggas is at (Okay!)
Lemme address y'all niggas one time
While I lock that down and I hit you with that
(With what?) That bomb shit
Y'all niggas know all day we be makin' it drop
Y'all niggas know every time I come through
This motherfucker, where we always takin' the ride
(So let me do this, bitch!)
Y'all niggas know when we come, we be makin' it flop
The way we makin' it hot'll make a nigga wanna stop
Get money, then cash that check for me
All my niggas just bust yo' TEC for me
Everybody from every hood, bang yo' head
'Til you break your motherfuckin' neck for me
See Busta Rhymes LiveGet tickets as low as $142You might also like[Chorus: Busta Rhymes & Truth Hurts]
Just let me give you real street shit
To ride in yo' shit with
Recline yo' seat, rewind this heat
Keep bouncin' up and down these streets

[Post-Chorus: Busta Rhymes]
So nod yo' head and break your neck, nigga, break your neck, nigga
Break your neck, nigga, bang yo' head until you start to
Break your neck, nigga, break your neck, nigga
Break your neck, nigga, beak your neck

[Verse 2: Busta Rhymes]
Come along now (Let's put it down, nigga!)
When I bounce back and they know I done caught my breath
Y'all niggas all know how we do
When the way we bang niggas in the head and we do it to death
(Reach fo' dem backwoods!)
The fire boy, you know we bakin' a ounce
I know you love the way we be givin' you the music
Makin' you bounce
Now fuck it up just a little for my niggas
Every time we come through, niggas know that we did it for y'all (Uh-huh)
And the way we do it for the people
Niggas know we always give it to y'all
I said, bounce (Come on!)
In the day time or the night, when ya creepin' along
Well, just bang this shit up in the truck
While you break yo' neck, now, motherfucker, try to figure my flow
See the way we come right through (When we come right through)
We be always blowin' the spot, again and again
And make a nigga really wanna stop!
Better tell yo' crew, yo' peeps
All my niggas better put they troops on
And gather up your soldiers, nigga
You know you better keep yo' boots on
All my niggas in the place (Ayo!)
Wave your hands high now
And the way we put it down
Make a nigga wonder what he really gonna try now
What ya really wanna do?
Just place your bet and put ya money where ya' mouth is (Ah-hoo)
All my niggas in the street, just break yo' neck
And keep on bouncing
[Chorus: Busta Rhymes & Truth Hurts]
Just let me give you real street shit
To ride in yo' shit with
Recline yo' seat, rewind this heat
Keep bouncin' up and down these streets

[Post-Chorus: Busta Rhymes]
So nod yo' head and break your neck, nigga, break your neck, nigga
Break your neck, nigga, bang yo' head until you start to
Break your neck, nigga, break your neck, nigga
Break your neck, nigga, beak your neck

[Verse 3: Busta Rhymes]
Here we go now, and you know everytime Bus-a-Bus be holdin' the fort
My nigga watch how we shuttin' it down
The way we put it on, comin' through like a steamroller
Me and Dre, nigga, ain't no fuckin' around
My nigga, what? Yeah, what up? Me and my team got a link
'Cause you know we stay choppin' it up
And when we get up in the club
All of my niggas at the bar know we lockin' it up
And we get a little (High) and we get a little (Drunk)
And we get a little crunk (Come on!)
Lemme give y'all niggas some shit
That'll make you wanna bang this out yo' trunk (Come on!)
Get money, then cash that check for me
All my niggas just bust yo' TEC for me
Everybody from every hood, bang yo' head
'Til you break your motherfuckin' neck for me!
[Chorus: Busta Rhymes & Truth Hurts]
Just let me give you real street shit
To ride in yo' shit with
Recline yo' seat, rewind this heat
Keep bouncin' up and down these streets

[Post-Chorus: Busta Rhymes]
So nod yo' head and break your neck, nigga, break your neck, nigga
Break your neck, nigga, bang yo' head until you start to
Break your neck, nigga, break your neck, nigga
Break your neck, nigga, beak your neck42Embed