188 ContributorsTranslationsPortuguêsThe Next Episode Lyrics[Chorus: Snoop Dogg & Kurupt]
La-da-da-da-dah
It's the motherfuckin' D-O-double-G (Snoop Dogg!)
La-da-da-da-dah
You know I'm mobbin' with the D-R-E
Yeah, yeah, yeah
You know who's back up in this motherfucker
What? What? What? What?
So blaze the weed up then (Blaze it up, blaze it up!)
Just blaze that shit up, nigga
Yeah, 'sup, Snoop?

[Verse 1: Snoop Dogg]
Top Dogg, bite 'em all, nigga, burn the shit up
D-P-G-C, my nigga, turn that shit up
C-P-T, L-B-C, yeah, we hookin' back up
And when they bang this in the club, baby, you got to get up
Thug niggas, drug dealers, yeah, they givin' it up
Lowlife, yo' life, boy, we livin' it up
Takin' chances while we dancin' in the party for sure
Slipped my ho a forty-fo' when she got in the back do'
Bitches lookin' at me strange, but you know I don't care
Step up in this motherfucker just a-swangin' my hair
Bitch, quit talkin', Crip walk if you down with the set
Take a bullet with some dick and take this dope on this jet
Out of town, put it down for the Father of Rap
And if yo' ass get cracked, bitch, shut yo' trap
Come back, get back, that's the part of success
If you believe in the S, you'll be relievin' your stress
You might also like[Chorus: Snoop Dogg, Dr. Dre & Kurupt]
La-da-da-da-dah
It's the motherfuckin' D-R-E (Dr. Dre, motherfucker!)
What? What? What? What?
La-da-da-da-dah
You know I'm mobbin' with the D-O-double-G

[Verse 2: Dr. Dre & Snoop Dogg]
Straight off the fuckin' streets of C-P-T
King of the beats, you ride to 'em in your Fleet (Fleetwood)
Or Coupe DeVille rollin' on dubs
How you feel? Whoopty whoop, nigga what?
Dre and Snoop chronic'd out in the 'lac (In the 'lac)
With D.O.C. in the back, sippin' on 'gnac (Yeah)
Clip in the strap, dippin' through hoods (What hood?)
Compton, Long Beach, Inglewood
South Central out to the West Side (West Side),it's California Love
This California bud got a nigga gang of pub
I'm on one, I might bail up in the Century Club
With my jeans on, and my team strong
Get my drink on and my smoke on
Then go home with somethin' to poke on ('Sup bitch?)
Loc, it's on for the two-triple-oh
Comin' real, it's the next episode
[Outro: Nate Dogg]
Hold up, hey
For my niggas who be thinkin' we soft, we don't play
We gon' rock it 'til the wheels fall off
Hold up, hey
For my niggas who be actin' too bold, take a seat
Hope you ready for the next episode
Hey-hey-hey-hey
Smoke weed every day
[Produced by Dr. Dre]125Embed