122 ContributorsCheck the Rhime Lyrics[Intro: Q-Tip]
Uh, uh, uh, uh
Uh, uh, uh, check the rhyme

[Verse 1: Q-Tip & Phife Dawg]
Back in the days on the boulevard of Linden
We used to kick routines and the presence was fittin'
It was I, The Abstract
And me, the Five Footer
I kicks the mad style so step off the frankfurter
Yo, Phife, you remember that routine
That we used to make spiffy like Mr. Clean?
Um... um... a tidbit, um... a smidgen
I don't get the message so you gots to run the pigeon
Heh, okay, you on point, Phife? All the time, Tip
You on point, Phife? All the time, Tip
You on point, Phife? All the time, Tip
Well, then grab the microphone and let your words rip

[Verse 2: Phife Dawg]
Now here's a funky introduction of how nice I am
Tell your mother, tell your father, send a telegram
I'm like an energizer 'cause, you see, I last long
My crew is never ever wack because we stand strong
Now if you say my style is wack, that's where you're dead wrong
I slayed that Buddy in El Segundo then Push it Along
You'd be a fool to reply that Phife is not the man
'Cause you know and I know that you know who I am
A special shout of peace goes out to all my pals, you see
And a middle finger goes for all you punk MC's
'Cause I love it when you wack MC's despise me
They get vexed, I roll next, can't none contest me
I'm just a fly MC who's five foot three and very brave
On top remaining, no home training 'cause I misbehave
I come correct in full effect have all my hoes in check
And before I get the butt, the Jim must be erect
You see, my aura's positive, I don't promote no junk
See, I'm far from a bully and I ain't a punk
Extremity in rhythm, yeah, that's what you heard
So just clean out your ears and just check the word
You might also like[Chorus: Q-Tip]
Check the rhyme y'all, check the rhyme y'all
Check the rhyme y'all, check the rhyme y'all
Check the rhyme y'all, check the rhyme y'all
Check it out, check it out
Check the rhyme y'all, check the rhyme y'all
Check the rhyme y'all, play tapes y'all
Check the rhyme y'all, check the rhyme y'all
Check it out, check it out

[Verse 3: Phife Dawg & Q-Tip]
Back in the days on the boulevard of Linden
We used to kick routines and the presence was fittin'
It was I, the Phifer And me, the Abstract
The rhymes were so rumpin' that the brothers rode the 'zack
Aiyo Tip, do you recall when we used to rock What?
Those fly routines on your cousin's block?
Um, let me see... damn, I can't remember
I receive the message and you will play the sender
You on point Tip? All the time, Phife
You on point Tip? Yeah, all the time, Phife
You on point Tip? Yo, all the time, Phife
So play the resurrector and give the dead some life

[Verse 4: Q-Tip]
Okay, if knowledge is the key, then just show me the lock
Got the scrawny legs but I move just like Lou Brock
With speed, I'm agile plus I'm worth your while
One hundred percent intelligent Black child
My optic presentation sizzles the retina
How far must you go to gain respect? Umm
Well, it's kinda simple, just remain your own
Or you'll be crazy, sad and alone
Industry rule number four-thousand-and-eighty
Record company people are shady
So kids, watch your back 'cause I think they smoke crack
I don't doubt it, look at how they act
Well, off to better things like a hip-hop forum
Pass me the rock and I'll score 'em with decorum
And proper, what you say, Hammer? Proper
Rap is not pop, if you call it that, then stop
[Outro: Q-Tip]
NC, y'all check the rhyme y'all
SC, y'all check it out y'all
Virginia, check the rhyme y'all
Check it out, check it out
In London, check the rhyme, y'all60Embed