1 ContributorNoel Gallagher Reddit AMA LyricsIntro:

"Helloah. I'm Noel Gallagher. Let's get pretentious
My new album with High Flying Birds, Chasing Yesterday, was released in March. You can get it on iTunes and Amazon. And we're kicking off our tour on May 3rd, starting in Toronto, with more information on tour dates to be found here: http://www.noelgallagher.com/
Victoria's assisting me in person today
EDIT: I'd like to say to the NGHFB massive - thank you for all your questions. It's been a fucking pleasure
I will see you somewhere down the road
Keep buying the merchandise. My wife's shoe collection depends on it
Smiles"

Question 1:
Choobaccacabra: "Noel, I wrote an entire screenplay for the Oasis movie. I think you were joking about it with a journalist, but I still wrote a feature-length script and it's fucking gold. Care to take a read?"

NG: "Absolutely."
NG: "You can send it to my management address, which is Number 54 Linhope Street, London, NW1 6 HL
Ask for Ray
Laughs evilly"

Question 2:
Steamedhams: "Do you ever get tired of those idiots who yell "Slide Away!" at your concerts?
If so, I'm sorry in advance for Monday night."

NG: "HA! Yes. I do."
NG: "I accept your groveling apology. And I still won't be playin' it."

Question 3:
Fagdrew4l: "hey noel, can you give me your favorite smiths song or songs?"
See Noel Gallagher’s High Flying Birds LiveGet tickets as low as $108You might also likeNG: "Ooooh! "Rusholme Ruffians." "The Queen is Dead." "There is a light that never goes out." "These Things Take Time." "Rubber Ring." And "Asleep." Amongst others."

Question 4:
Ericms: "Hey Noel, did the Japanese fan obsessed with your pants actually get to meet you in the end?"

NG: "No."

Question 5:
Thefeb83: "Hi Noel! Do you like classical music? Any favourite composers?"

NG: "ponders
Ennio Morricone is the only one that springs to mind. I've seen 'im twice in the last five years. And his music does bring a tear to my eye. I think he's a genius. Like me."
Question 6:
NoelyGFan: "Hiya Noel. Tayto or Walkers? Curlywurly or Double Decker? And a thank you to your wife for being such an inspiration for me to get fit. (Hence I don't eat any of those much anymore! :) )"

NG: "Tayto
Curlywurly. From the fridge
Oh wow! Well, I would high-five you back on 'er behalf. She's a fitness fanatic my wife. She's fucking gorgeous."

Question 7:
Aman50k: "I'll be attending one of your gigs for the first time this summer? Any advice, aside from not shouting out "LIAM!"?
Also could you please play an acoustic version of Go Let it Out sometime soon? It's one of my favourite tunes of yours!"

NG: "Eh - do I have any advice for you attendin'?
If you could find the time to buy some merchandise, that'd be great. A t-shirt preferably, maybe a poster, ideally a t-shirt AND a poster would be GREAT
Other than that, just clap in all the right places, and you know, don't shout out stupid fucking song titles."
Question 8:
Kyuzwafu: "Hi Noel, quick question. What is your guilty pleasure when it comes to music?"

NG: "Tears for Fears."

Question 9:
State_from_jakefarm: "Hi Noel
Your'e commentary on all of Oasis's music videos is possibly the best thing on Youtube and one of the funniest things ever
So I'm hoping that your stance on videos hasn't changed so we'll see some High Flying Birds commentary down the road. Right?
Also, if you play "All around the world" at the Sony Center on Monday I will dedicate a shrine to you in my closet"

NG: "Oh yeah. Absolutely
Then what better reason for not playing it? Hehehehe."

Question 10:
David_J_Huggins: "Hi Noel
Do you remember where the chant in the demo of Columbia was sampled from?
Sounds like a Hare Krishna-type chant to me, but would love to know where it was actually from. Thanks!"

NG: "None of us know. It was just - we switched on the radio - it was recorded in the middle of the night, about 3 or 4 AM, and we just... it was something that was on the BBC World Service I think or some fucking radio station. None of us know what it is. No idea."

Question 11:
Pottersground: "Hi Noel, fan since the Definitely Maybe days here. Thanks for doing this AMA. My three questions are:
1) If there had been one more Oasis album after Dig Out Your Soul, what do you think it would've been like? Which songs of yours or the other three would you have put on it?
2) What's your maddest Oasis story?
3) What lead to Lock All the Doors being dug up and rerecorded for Chasing Yesterday? And,while we're on the subject, are there any odds in any other old and unreleased songs being redone for future releases? I would love to hear a finished version of Gotta Have Fun from the '89 tape
Cheers Noel!"
NG: "1.) Okay. It would've been half of my first solo record, so "Record Machine" would've probably been on it... "Stop the Clocks" would've probably been on it, and "Dream On" and maybe "Stranded on the Wrong Beach" and then the rest of the guys would've put on some of their own songs
2.) Hah. Wow. Maddest Oasis story. Just the fact that we existed AT ALL and became the biggest band in the world is bizarre enough. I'm not going to share any Oasis stories with anybody online for fear of litigation and libel
Although needless to say - there were oiled midgets involved. grins
There, I've said too much
3.) "Gotta Have Fun?" What led to "Lock All the Doors" being resurrected was just the fact that I kept the chorus in my head all those years... and I just happened to be comin' out of the local supermarket, on a Sunday evening... and snaps fingers it fell out of the sky
That's it
There are no more hidden gems to be regurgitated
Good word. Regurgitated
"Gotta Have Fun?" Don't remember that one."

Question 12:
Ruben122: "Hi Noel. Huge fan from Montevideo, Uruguay here. Any plans on coming to South America? Thank you!"

NG: "Yes. I believe... it's pencilled in... although don't quote me on this... for March 2016."

Question 13:
FootballDropout: "Wow... I can't believe you're finally doing an AMA!
I've been a huge fan of your work for years, and Live Forever is my all-time favorite song. I love the new album, and I can't describe how happy I am that you finished Lock all the Doors. Your music, especially the Masterplan album and your first solo album has been the amazing soundtrack to my teenage years and helped me through some really rough times
Do you have any plans to release songs such as "Bye Bye My Family/Don't Stop Being Happy," "She Must Be One of Us" or "Just Let it Come Down Over Me"?
The Mustique Demos are something of a "Holy Grail" among Oasis fans. Will they be released with the Be Here Now reissue?
To get a response from you would be incredible, and again thank you for all the incredible music."

NG: "Okay
There will be a "Be Here Now" reissue
The Mustique Demos will be on it
Indeed
The 3 songs that you mentioned - "Bye Bye My Family" is called "Don't Stop..." - the other two will definitely be released at some point - not sure when."

Question 14:
Thefatronaldo: "Should City sack Pellegrini this summer and if so who would you like to see in charge next?"

NG: "Should they sack 'im, I don't know
Who should they get? I don't know that either."

Question 15:
*Unknown question*

NG: "Someone asked if I would ever be on Comedians In Cars Getting Coffee with Jerry Seinfeld:
In a heartbeat
I would fucking pay my own AIRFARE to do that
I'm a HUUUGE fan of Jerry Seinfeld. HUGE."

Question 16:
Laurakd7: "Do you get up to Manchester much these days and do you prefer London now?"

NG: "Eh - I go to Manchester to see my football team, Manchester City. When I go there, I love it. I usually spend about 2 or 3 nights there, at a time, and it's great, but London has become my home. And it's where I will probably stay from now on."

Question 17:
Danniboi1Derz: "What's your favorite thing to eat in the states?"

NG: "Ooooh!
Burgers
Burgers. Mexican food, 'cuz we don't get good Mexican food in England, and there's great Mexican food in America
And hot dogs."
NG: "The hot dog sandwich."

Question 18:
DannyBoi1Derz: "I know your son Donovan and you are pretty big WWE fans. Who's your favorite Wrassler??"

NG: "nods
At the moment - Donovan's favourite wrestler is Brock Lesner. Because he's mean, and evil
My favourite wrestler at the moment is Bray Wyatt. Because we met him when they did a show in London, and he was a really fucking nice guy. And we met Hulk Hogan, and he was a REALLY fucking nice guy. He asked if I was one of his Hulkamaniacs, and I had to say "yes, of course!" He came into this room, and I was going "Look Donovan, it's Hulk Hogan" and he goes "Look BROTHER, are you one of my Hulkamaniacs?!" and I said "Yes, of course!"

Question 19:
SuperT15: "Hey Noel, been a huge fan for years
What do you think is the most underrated Oasis song? Listen Up would be my choice."

NG: " "She is Love."
"Idler's Dream."
"Let's All Make Believe."
And... and... "Part of the Queue."

Question 20:
Frankm95: "Noel, do you consider a hotdog to be put under the category of a saddwich?"

NG: "Hahaha!
YES
Frequently
I frequently consider the hotdog a sandwich."

Question 21:
Lizzibarnes: "Also, forgot to ask! The ring with the red stone that you've always worn, what is the significance of it? I've always wondered! Thank you for being a rock-god."

NG: "gestures with ring
Thank you very much
I bought this ring in a pawn shop in Tokyo in the 90's. It's a US college ring that I believe people get when they graduate from college in America. It was given to somebody. I'm assuming a G.I. stationed in Tokyo, from Ruston High School in Mississippi (I've looked it up)
It has started many a boring conversation with some of the American armed forces in airport lounges across the world, when they'll say to me "Where'd you go to school buddy?"
"Manchester?"
"I see you got a ring there. Where'd you go to school?"
"I went to Ruston High School in Mississippi, as you can tell by my accent.""

Question 22:
Keepit_creepy: "Hi Noel, I have always wondered what your vocal warm-up consists of pre-gig?. Since your vocals are always on point!."

NG: "Eh... I sing "The Macarena." I do some yodelin'. And then I finish with "Crazy in Love" by Beyonce
Chuckles"

Question 23:
Gusrodlopez: "How was life before Oasis? did you had any life goal or something?"

NG: "No, where I came from, and the times that I grew up in, it was best not to have any ambitions. It was quite a bleak time
I never had a life goal until I wrote "Live Forever." And then when I wrote "Live Forever," I wanted to be in the biggest band in the world."

Question 24:
Riceomatic69: "Hey Noel, always wanted to ask this....back in the 90's you worked with Epiphone on your signature model "Supernova" guitar
However it didn't have any of the details of the custom shop Union Jack Epiphone you were most famous for at the time & have never seen any footage of you playing one
Did you have much involvement in the design or was it just a nice big bag of cash handed over for the use of your signature? :)"

NG: "chuckles
Okay, FIRSTLY, there was no big bag of fucking cash
Secondly, I was involved in the design
Thirdly, I can't fucking remember what my involvement was
Fourthly, I do have one, somewhere. But... I shouldn't have made them sonic blue color
It's disgustin'
Tell her I was high on the time, on drugs."

Question 25:
Bonojour: "Will there ever be a song featuring Boots? I think the meows would be a great harmony."

NG: "chuckles
Eh...Boots is an arrogant little shit
Yeah
That's my cat. He's been ignoring me for the last fucking five years
Me and Boots could never work together. There would be too many "artistic differences."

Question 26:
Venomousvillainy: "Hi. My Dad reckons he tested your eyes as a kid, do you remember going to an Opticians in Gorton?"

NG: "Gorton?
Yeah...kind of. Well, I know where Gorton is, and I know where my eyes are, and would I have had them tested in Gorton? I don't know
Gorton is like, an area of Manchester near where I used to live."

Question 27:
Jyhwkm: "Noel, you’ve always seemed dismissive of Oasis' Be Here Now - Heathen Chemistry years. Why is that? It was the ascots, wasn’t it?"

NG: "I dismiss "Be Here Now" because it's shit. And I'm allowed to say that because I fucking wrote it. "Heathen Chemistry" on the other hand, has its moments... "Force of Nature," "She is Love," "Little By Little," "Stop Crying Your Heart Out," etcetera
But yeah - "Be Here Now." Hmmm."

Question 28:
JamJam21: "Hi Noel! will you be adding anymore dates in the uk to your tour?"

NG: "I think there will be more dates, but not 'til 2016."

Question 29:
LordSifter: "You're still great mates with Gem - what's next for him? Will we see the 2 of you play together in the near future?"

NG: "I was with Gem about 4 weeks ago. Didn't get a chance to talk about anything really. It was at a party I was having in my dressing room, and there were too many people there. But if I needed on a track or a gig that thing that Gem offers, then I wouldn't hesitate to call him because I'd still like to think we're good friends and musical partners
As for what he's going to do in the future... I have no idea."

Question 30:
PraetorianGuard14: "Have you seen the new documentary on Kurt Cobain?"

NG: "No."

Question 31:
Jamesh134: "Hi Noel, what ever happened to the Oasis version of "The Roller"?
Also, I wanted to say thanks for all the music over the years. Been a source of inspiration all my life!"

NG: "Oh, thank you very much
The Oasis version of "The Roller" is... in somebody's... demo CD collection CD, somewhere. Not mine, I might add
Somebody will have it. Gem will probably have a copy of it. As has Liam, no doubt."

Question 32:
Sterlingavenueband: "Hi Noel. First of all- thank you for the many years of great music and leading me to my first guitar 18 years ago. Forever indebted to you for this
What are your thoughts on the songs 'Let's All Make Believe' and 'Roll It Over' and what are the chances of ever hearing them live? They're amongst two of my favourites of many which have never been done live before. Thanks in advance."

NG: "Eh - "Roll It Over" probably will never be performed live. But on the other hand, "Let's All Make Believe" I was messing around with it before this tour started, so I wouldn't be surprised if I play it in the very far distant future."

Question 33:
ZeppelinYanks: "Hey Noel! I'm a huge fan of Oasis and your solo work
A lot of what made Oasis great was the rock and roll attitude of "Fuck you, we're the greatest band in the world." What do you think about the current state of rock and roll? Is it alive, dead, or dying?"

NG: "ponders
I think that rock n' roll has turned into - or been turned into - a thing that is now referred to as "modern rock." Which is an awful title to give any kind of music. I think - I just think that the attitude, and the spirit, that we had is definitely disappearing."

Question 34:
Rodoalo: "Hi Noel, it's Rod from URUGUAY
My question has always been this:
Do you have any knowledge of music theory or did you learn songwriting by ear?
Cheers, your new record is amazing."

NG: "I learnt song-writin' by ear and instinct. I've never studied musical theory. I would never allow myself or any of my children to study musical theory. Because if you study musical theory, you will eventually end up soundin' like...shit
Hahaha."

Question 35:
Riceomatic69: "You have always spoken very highly of Ryan Adams & his version of Wonderwall, have you ever encountered anybody else that covered one of your tracks & thought it was as good as your version or maybe even better?"

NG: "No."

Question 36:
Look_who_it_isnt: "Hi Noel! I'm a huge fan. Your music has brought me so much enjoyment over the years - I can't even put it into words. I have major respect and love for you and wish you all the happiness in the world! I have two questions for you:
1) I love your sense of humor. You always make me laugh :) What's your favorite comedy, either from TV or movies?
2) A lot of us ladies think you're just the hottest thing ever. Does it bother you to be considered a veritable sex god? ;)"

NG: "1.) SEINFELD. The greatest thing that's ever been on television
2.) It's a cross I have to bear. And unfortunately... you know, it's a long road that I will have to carry this cross down. But I could think of worse things to be. I.E... a French person in Montreal."

Question 37:
Loulou96: "Hi Noel
I heard on radio 1 you perform shows wearing no underwear, can you confirm?"

NG: "Yeah, well, clearly that was a joke."

Question 38:
Super2goten: "Hey! Whose names were written on that napkin, Noel?
Thanks for being a legend! Think The Dying Of The Light/The Right Stuff/While The Song Remains The Same may be your best work yet, so thanks for that too! CTID!"

NG: "The names on the napkin was yours and your family's."
NG: "And I agree with those songs being my best work, and I admire your taste."

Question 39:
GiovaniGuizzo: "Hello Mr. Gallagher. Thanks for doing this AmA. I am a huge Oasis's and NGHFB's fan and I actually have several questions, but I will contain myself and ask just 3:
Which music is this one https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_5mYMKfuUYc ? It sounds pretty amazing. Would you consider recording it eventually? Can you give us the name of this tune at least?
Have you met the girl of "Talk Tonight" after you wrote the song? If you have, how was the meeting?
I loved your new album, specially the "Lock All the Doors" track (what a blast from the past). Can we expect other reworked songs from the past in your future albums?
PS: You would like to take a look at /r/oasis. There are some interesting and insightful posts there from some mad fans."

NG: "1.) That song is called "Don't stop..." I've already recorded it. The reason it didn't make it onto "Chasing Yesterday" was because it didn't fit the vibe of the album. Needless to say, when I finally get 'round to releasing it, I think it will be one of my best ever releases. The sound of it is more akin to the first album, and I felt like "Chasing Yesterday" had moved on a little bit. But it's a great song, and I love it, and when I finally release it, you're going to love it (fans, that is)
2.) Eh - no, I haven't. I struggle to remember her name, to be honest
3.) No. That's it now, I'm afraid. The cupboards are bare."

Question 40:
Rak86t: "You're a great story teller and have such a way with words. Would you ever consider writing a book?"

NG: "looks around room
No."

Question 41:
Supersonic5: "Hey Chief! Never in a million years thought I’d see you do an AMA
You mentioned that you regret the name ‘Chasing Yesterday’, would you change it if you could, and what would you change it to?"

NG: ""Regret" is too strong a word. I don't think it's the greatest title I ever came up with. But then again, neither was "What's the Story, Morning Glory." If I could change it now, I'd probably change it to... eh... "Dark Side of the Room"
OR "Wheat is Murder." Hahahaha!"
Question 42:
Chenredditdude: "Hey Noel, I've noticed that in many songs you play E MINOR... Is it a heavenly chord?"

NG: "Hmmm
I guess it must be."

Question 43:
Govt_cheeze: "Hello Noel
How does it feel to be one of the last true rockstars?
&
What do you think of the new Blur album?"

NG: "It feels good to be one of the last rockstars
If in fact, that's what I am
And from what I've heard of the new Blur album, it sounds pretty good."

Question 44:
Rpm959: "What do you think it will take for guitar music to make a comeback?"

NG: "Somebody to write some fucking great songs
That's all it'll ever take
That's all it takes. People can talk about "attitude," and "spirit" and fucking good-looking guys in bands, and vibe, and fucking blah-blah-blah. I dare ANYBODY from the next generation to write one decent chorus
Yeah
Just one."

Question 45:
Justsomepersononredd: "Hi Noel, huge fan of most of your work
1) Do you ever get tired of people asking you all kinds of questions about Oasis? I've watched a few interviews with you post-Oasis and pretty much everyone's asked you a question or two about Oasis, I suppose I'm really not being different but do you ever feel like people should just move on?
2) How has touring and your creative process changed over the years? I mean, the music you put out now is quite different from the start of your career and I'm guessing there isn't as much partying behind the scenes as when you started
3) Which modern-day bands do you listen to nowadays? I discovered Kasabian by watching an interview of you and I think they're amazing, so thanks for that too
4) Any musicians you'd like to collaborate with?
5) I read that you had another brother, Paul, but I've never actually heard anything about him. What's he like?
6) What do you think of all these new forms of music distribution? Itunes, Spotify, Tidal, etc
Thanks for your time, hope you enjoy your AMA, and keep being an awesome musician"

NG: "1.) Yes. I do feel like they should move on. But I don't mind answerin' the questions if they're from fans, because i know how much that band meant, and continues to mean to people. So in my head, and my heart, I've moved on. So it's cool
2.) There's certainly not as much partying in front of the scenes, that's for sure. Everything changes as you get older in life. You know, you don't attempt as much as you did when you're 47 as you did when you were 27 - whether that be length of time on the road, or partying, or amount of songs that you write, or the places you're willing to go to write those songs. The life of a musician in regards to gettin' older is just the same as everybody else's life as they get older. Your fucking shit changes. Not literally
3.) Eh - yes, Kasabian would be one of my favourites. There's a band called Neon Waltz that you should check out. I'm not sure... there's a band called Jungle. Fucking hell, they are amazin'. Other than that, I'm still discovering old stuff from the 60's, I'm afraid
4.) Dave Gillmore, Jeff Beck, Davie Bowie would be - fucking hell, that would blow my mind if he would even shake a maraca for one tune, that'd be great. Yeah
5.) Heh. He's a fucking idiot - I'm only jokin' - haha! He's a dj. He - when I'm on tour in the UK - he does my official after show parties. And he's a funny, funny dude
6.) I don't agree with streamin'. I certainly don't agree with the lack of royalties that I receive from streamin'. I realize that the world is changin', and the way that people receive music - and even the fact that I use the phrase "receive music" is a fucking disgrace. I would rather that people own it. But I'm not sure where it's all going to end, if I'm being honest
I'll try."

Question 46:
Pheelip: "Hey Noel, huge fan. What do you think has been your greatest musical achievement?"

NG: "Whooooooo
I couldn't say with any great sense of certainty, because it changes every day for me, but I'm going to say the song "Rock & Roll Star" because it sums up everything about bein' young, and bein' in a band, and the hopes and dreams of, you know, a young land from Manchester
And it's a fucking great song."

Question 47:
MadferitNYC: "Do you think a rock band in 2015 can reach the level of popularity that Oasis reached? Or do you think that the music industry is too dead for there ever to be a rock band that reaches those heights again?"

NG: "I think that the days of a rock band explodin' out of a council estate in the north of England and going on to connect with so many people in so many countries around the world... I think the chances of that happenin' again are very, very slim
But we live in hope."

Question 48:
Karmarghh: "Hey Noel, been a huge fan of yours almost all 20 years of my life. I have been lucky enough to see NGHFB twice recently and just want to tell you the new album is f***ing incredible! You, among the likes of Bacharach and Macca, are my absolute inspiration for pursuing a life in Music, so thanks for that. Anyway - couple questions for you:

1) As a songwriter, could you let me in on your approach to melody? I listen to yours and ask myself "why the bloody hell didn't I think of that?!". Do they really just pop into your head or do you find there is a lot of trial and error?

2) Reckon you can give me a kick-start and replace Mike Rowe with me on keys? He's a cool guy, but I'll do it for nothing. That gives me the edge right? Oh and I won't f*ck it up - I promise!!

Take it easy Noel, and keep doing what you're doing. Riverman blows my mind."

NG: "1.) Eh - it depends. The great ones usually just pop into your head. And seem to just fall out of the sky. And then some of them you have to work at. There is no golden rule or any rule set in stone for songwritin'. No matter what anybody might tell you, it seems to change from song to song for me. But I guess... I always, always, ALWAYS let the melody dictate the rest. I don't worry about the chords. I just let the melody dictate where the song's going to go and sometimes they're great and sometimes they're not
2.) Well, you're in! Cheap labor is my forte, haha."

Question 49:
Sally_cinnamon_: "Hi Noel! First of all, thanks for giving us so much great music. You truly are a godlike genius
My question for you is: where did your sense of humor and talent for storytelling come from? Because I think you are genuinely one of the funniest people in the world seemingly without even trying
Also, do you still think dogs in hats and sunglasses are hilarious?"

NG: "Well - dogs in hats and sunglasses - there is *NOTHING* funnier than a dog in a hat
Ehm - I don't know. My sense of humor, I don't know. It's Irish, it must've been passed down to me from somebody in Ireland."

Question 50:
Jeavo: "Hi Noel, thanks for doing this AMA
If at all any, what video games do you play?"

NG: "I don't play video games
I have a life. And that life is too short for video games
Some of my band play video games on tour. It drives me up the fucking wall. And it's one of the main reasons why I'll probably fire the fucking lot of them on this tour."

Question 51:
Shivan21: "Hi Noel! I've always wondered about the meaning of D'you know what I mean video, and especially the fact that there is Be Here Now and D'you know what I mean written in czech language. The video has very 60's atmosphere for me and they are also alluded by Beatles references. Considering the military choppers, could be the video understood as refering to the Prague Spring in 1968?"

NG: "No. Okay. The video for "D'You know what I mean" was shot on the deserted set of FULL METAL JACKET, which is still - you can still visit it in London - so it's an old, disused gasworks in London. The Czech writing, I'm not sure what that's all about, I thought it was Vietnamese writin'. The choppers was a reference to Vietnam. What any of that has to do with the fucking song is beyond me. I don't even know what the song's about, never mind the video!"

Question 52:
Brutalful: "Hi Noel
I am curious what (if anything) is still on your bucket list?
If you have done it all, what are your top 5 moments in life, and is playing with Johnny Marr on that list?
Cheers!"

NG: "Okay. First of all - a bucket list is the most fucking ludicrous fucking term I've ever heard, in my life
BUT
I would like someday to record an album in New York. I would also like to have Dave Gilmore play on a track for me. And Jeff Beck. I think that's about it
Oh, actually, I also still think that one day I'm going to write the greatest song in the world."

Question 53:
Nathanoasis: "Hello Noel! Your music is incredible, all 20 years of it, and it has changed my life. Thank you for that and thank you for doing this AMA. I have a question about the song that is going around the Internet under the name "Bye Bye My Family" (and "Don't Stop the Happenin'" and "Hold Back the Night"). From what we've heard, the song sounds amazing. Will this song ever be recorded and released? Thank you again and keep on being an absolute fucking legend!"

NG: "chuckles
I pretty much just answered that question about 20 minutes ago. It's a song called "Don't Stop..."
I've already recorded it. It didn't make it onto "Chasing Yesterday" because it sounded a bit too much like what was already on the first High Flying Birds album
But it will be released, in, you know... soon!"

Question 54:
MidnightPizza: "Hello Mr. Gallagher! I'd like to thank you for all the music you wrote. I hope to see one of your show soon and maybe pay you a beer. Here are my questions:
1) Are you still thinking about doing an album with Damon Albarn? What do you think about The Magic Whip, Blur's latest album?
2) What's your opinion about Dave Sardy's input on your work? Some people think that your latest work (especially your first solo album) could've been better without him and that producing Chasing Yesterday yourself was refreshing. I personally enjoy the Dave Sardy produced albums as much as any other album you wrote
Anyway, congratulation on Chasing Yesterday. It really is a great album."

NG: "1.) Ehm - the thing with Damon was a flippant comment as casually thrown around as "We should go for a drink." As for makin' an album, I would be amazed if either of us ever had the time to make that work. As for "The Magic Whip," I like the tracks "Lonesome Street" and "Ong Ong" - I haven't heard any of the rest of it, but if those two tracks are anything to go by, sounds like it's going to be good
2.) Ehm - his input was fantastic. And at the time, invaluable. And I couldn't have got my solo career off the ground without him. All that being said - you know, my record, this record, "Chasing Yesterday," sounds that good. With any producer, it's all about the relationship, as opposed to the skills that they can bring. But me and Dave, you know, still to this day we remain good friends, and maybe we'll work together again in the future."

Question 55:
SnakeArms: "Hi Noel! In ALL of your interviews you've said that the original verses to 'Lock All The Doors' went to The Chemical Brother's 'Setting Sun’, which is weird, because the 1993 demos we have suggest that the songs original verses were instead used in 'My Sister Lover' and the verses that went to 'Setting Sun' came from a different demoed song 'Coming on Strong'. Have we missed something or does any of this sound true at all??
Oh, and what happened to 'Slow' and 'The Red, White & Blue'?!"

NG: "You should bear in mind that my memory's not the best
If you're telling me it's from a different song, then I would probably agree
I'd like to think that the Chemical Brothers story is a better STORY though
So let's keep that between us."

Question 56:
LittleWoodstock: "Hey Noel, big fan of all your work!
Is your work any different with the High Flying Birds than it was with Oasis? Are there any aspects from the Oasis days you miss?"

NG: "I miss... the camaraderie of being in a band, in the studio. That is to say, there are massive benefits - by makin' a record on your own, you can change direction very very quickly. And you don't have to run things by "the committee" of band members
On the other hand, it's great to share, you know... to share the greatness with other people, d'you know what I mean? If I can give you an analogy, you know, the more people at a party, the better
Shrugs
Although it's sometimes nice to party on your own."

Question 57:
MONTREAL_COME_ON: "WHY TORONTO AND NOT MONTREAL? we've got a better hockey club and our football team is getting better every year."

NG: "Because I went to a fucking donut shop once in Montreal, and all the staff spoke French! And last time I looked - France was on the other side of the fucking world
So I say to the people of Montreal - au revoir
Hahahaha!"

Question 58:
ExtremelySexyMan: "Hey Noel, first off, huge fan, thanks for doing this
My question is, after writing great songs for more than 20 years now, where do you get your inspiration for new material? I imagine it to be the most difficult part of being a musician, and I am continually blown away by your work
Cheers, and go City!"

NG: "Ehm... I guess I'm a product of my record collection, which is ever-expanding and gets ever-more eclectic. And I don't ever sit down when I'm writin' a song and feel like I've got anything profound to say to the universe... I just - to coin the phrase from that godawful film FROZEN... I just let it go... let it go!
Smiles"

Question 59:
Stevie_j: "Noel, thanks for many years of amazing music. Please don't stop
Have you ever thought of doing a comedy tour? Seriously."

NG: "HA!!!!
Fucking hell - NO."3Embed