136 ContributorsTranslationsFrançaisNederlandsРусский​hate will never win Lyrics[Intro: Donald Trump]
—ference, but a very important one, and it was scheduled to talk about the great things that we're doing with the secretary on the Veterans Administration.  And we will talk about that very much so in a little while, but I thought I should put out a comment as to what's going on in Charlottesville. So, again, I want to thank everybody for being here, in particular, I want to thank—

[Chorus: XXXTENTACION]
Mind me while I sit and pretend to make amends
With all these false laws, I pray the cement
Will fuckin' swallow you, I'll follow you down road
To this broken-hearted love for you, my heart has gone as still as a corpse
Never mind me while I sit and pretend to make amends
With all these false laws, I pray the cement
Will fuckin' swallow you, I'll follow you down road
To this broken-hearted love for you, my heart has gone as still as a corpse

[Verse: XXXTENTACION & Donald Trump]
Why the fuck should I apologize? Country's orderless, it's a lie
By these fuckin' government scumbag dicksuckers with ties
(Great people, they're great people)
Wanna fight for my future, it's right in my hands
And the future of many youth, if I play my cards can advance, and-
Genuine dime, I opened my mind, and where can I find this future?
Sever your mind or you will be blind, and trapped in a mind of lies within our walls
I'm feelin' like my mind within a war between myself
Between this slavery of media, it's poor presentation
(Violence on many sides) The youth within our nation
Such is a pity, dependin' on people resemblin' Bible Satan, uh
Set 'em up off and wet 'em up off like it's PlayStation, uh
Open up your minds and come together as a nation, why?
Why?
Why?
Why?
You might also like[Outro: Donald Trump]
This has been going on for a long, long time. It has no place in America.  What is vital now is a swift restoration of law and order and the protection of innocent lives.  No citizen should ever fear for their safety and security in our society.  And no child should ever be afraid to go outside and play.​77Embed