2 ContributorsCharlie Clips vs. Yoshi G Lyrics[Round 1: Charlie Clips]
Ayo, Charlotte what's poppin'?
Aye, before I get into my round, ladies let me hear y'all make some noise

{ladies cheer}

Fuck y'all
I came to this mothafucka to this shit for the men
Remember when Lady Flamez hit Jakkboy with that "fuck you" shit?
Let's see if they like when we do that shit to them
Fuck you, for actin' like you took a Plan B, knowin you gon' keep the baby regardless
Fuck you, for comin' home and puttin' ya tampon in the garbage
Alright, I had to make sure we was good
A thot in battle rap is somethin' we gotta deal with
If you really about that thot life, you'll turn to the crowd and show 'em one ya titties real quick
Yoshi I fuck wit' you, but the little boy nipples make me uncomfortable
The type of chick I couldn't build with
The type to give another nigga head just because ya husband didn't toast the bread makin' ya kids sandwiches for they field trip
You stole Pristavia boots at Chrome 23 and you put them shits in ya bag real quick
Somebody tell Mario and Luigi that Yoshi in the streets catchin' real licks
Verb had the nerve to make her Island Gang, I can imagine all the shit he gotta deal wit'
A vegan fuckin' a chicken that eat nothin' but beef, I peep the meal switch
"Chicken", "Vegan", "Beef", did y'all peep how I reveal shit?
"Chicken', "Beef", "veal", let me get into my real shit
Now at the Face Off you was beggin' me to take a round off
Army fatigue color Camero, look like I've been around Dolph
I let a round off, body parts everywhere, the coroner could only round off
They said, "Who you killin' next?" I said, "Yo!" Thought I was startin' my round off
Aye, do me a favor, stop sis'
You had a ghostwriter before, you're ineligible to be top five or even top six
I ain't supposed to battle you after what I did to Lu
I'm supposed to be in the tropics
But I'm tight cause I ain't book my flight
Instead I got delt a (Delta) little thot bitch
Who's Spirit connects with other hoes when they get United with her thot clique
You think you in ya bag, goin' overheads, you need to stop this
You're just extra luggage, we let you carry on like you a top chick
You wasn't in the first class when Queen Of The Ring and them used to drop shit
And you only like to jump on planes cause they got a cockpit
You not slick, you think you complex but if you ask me, the chick is simple
You told the battle league, "Y'all got me payin' for my fuckin' room" and come to find out it was the incidentals
It mega hurts (Hertz) to know you can run an Enterprise
But all you wanna do is get fucked in a rental
You get around rappers and let 'em beat, you're not a human you're an instrumental
That drink cum and shit
Then you turn around and act like you a nun and shit
That's why I'm gunnin' shit
You wanted Charlie well you gonna get hit with a hundred Clips
And you disrespected Remy Ma, knowin' she a female legend and she runnin' shit
I'ma leave you dead in the middle of Little Italy for your Pun-ishment
Aye, you must of took a shot of Remy before you took a shot at Remy
Cause a sober person ain't gonna diss Rem' and miss (reminisce)
And then you disrespect her assistant Jen
I don't know why you add her friend in this
When Jen paid for your flight, got you right and the one who gave you all your benefits
But you Yoshi, you only know Nintendo, she ain't even peep the Jen assist (Genesis)
Yoshi, you could suck a pint of Blood out a Crip
Make the nigga walk off like "Good job cuz"
You ain't just a battle rap thot
You was always gon' be one no matter what the job was
If you was a model you would go 'head and suck dick before you hit the runway
If you was a car saleswoman, you would suck a dick before you sell a Hyundai
Verb got you as his girl?
Ayo Verb I hope you realize one day
No matter how much this chick feel Aye (Chic-Fil-A), her mouth always gon' be open on a Sunday
Aye Charlotte, as y'all can see I didn't come here for the BS
Wrestling fan and you gon' suck it, that's word to DX
Yoshi you're outdated, you'll never blossom on a PS
You a dick sucker and that's why Nintendo named it DS
Tay Roc voice, "light bars"
You might also like[Round 2: Charlie Clips]
Ayo, if one of your 39 boyfriends jump in my way, I might snipe that nigga
And it's funny you brought up Mr. Marcus, cause you wear your hat just like that nigga
And her mouth is where I put the cock back, and let her fire just like that trigger
Notice she slammed her hat like Rex, and I'ma make you retire just like that nigga
I will never let you put your mouth on my blunt
I'd rather give you all the weed you want
Tell you to roll up and even light it for you
Now, I just wanna say you made it to the big stage Yoshi, on some G shit I'm delighted for you
You actually have a chance to kill Charlie Clips, and I know your family is excited for you
So I just wanted to say "congratulations" and the seven niggas that's writin' for you
You know I bumped into a video of you cryin' the other day?
I seen that shit and was like, "no way"
She said, "Tsu Surf. I don't understand bars sometimes, okay?"
So let me get this straight, you can make a complex scheme about gettin' cash and all, havin' no ass at all
The Brotherhood where you smashed it all
Make a reference about basketball but then tell Surf you don't know about basketball
Sound like somebody writin' for you
I tell you what, if you really an MC freestyle right now, go 'head
No?
Go 'head Yoshi, you can try it then

{Yoshi starts talking to Clips}

[Clips]
Don't get mad. You mad. I'm still gon' fuck you. You good. This battle was foreplay. I'ma get to that later
Aye, you know what? You just got mad at me, right?
But I'ma show you that I'm still on ya side
Life if ya son was havin' trouble in school, right?
Listen. Will you listen to me? Alright listen to me
If your son was havin' trouble in school guess what I would've did?
I would've taught him for you
If I was ya man and your ex popped up talkin' shit, I would've fought him for you
All them little thot demons you got in ya house, I would've caught 'em for you
You don't need dick, you need Jesus bitch, and I brought him for you

[Z The Dropout as Jesus]
My child!

[Smack to the crowd]
Hold it down, hold it down. Give Jesus respect. Please!

[Z The Dropout as Jesus]
My child!
I'm tryin' real hard not to send you down where it's hot
But see in paradise, we ain't really got space for thots
You need to stop
Have faith in me and start believin'
Start to pray and gettin' down on them knees for the right reasons
You a heathen

[Charlie Clips to the crowd]
Please! He is trying to lead her to the right direction! Talk to her again Jesus. One more time. Bring it back Jesus
[Z The Dropout as Jesus]
Start to pray and gettin' down on them knees for the right reasons
You a heathen
Done sucked up so many of my children I can still hear them screamin'
That mouth crazy, give "speaking in tongues" a whole new meanin'

[Charlie Clips]
Hold on now Jesus
When I asked you to come talk to her you were supposed to perform a miracle
Nigga, you tryin' to get booked for N.O.M.E. 20, I didn't ask you to be lyrical
But cover your ears Jesus, this is 'bout to get crazy alright
I got respect for nothin'
After this battle you gon' give me neck or somethin'
Or I'ma get inside them walls and do construction, I get to wreckin' somethin'
Me and my niggas gon' run a train, I'ma be the first to bust, right on your neck or somethin'
Aye Jesus what you doin'?

[Z The Dropout]
Step aside my son, you know I'm the second comin' (cumming)

[Round 2: Yoshi G]
Aye Charolotte
The perfect opportunity for this nigga to start black preachin'
He picked the right heathen
But why the fuck would you pick a white Jesus?

[Round 3: Charlie Clips]
I ain't gon' lie, I don't even wanna rhyme after that
But I have to, so ahh
Alright, before I get into my round, quick side note
I knew she was gonna rebuttal the whole Jesus thing, of course I know
I just wanted to say that as a black man, he's just albino
But this the round where you should be scared of Clips
You and all two of your ghostwriters ain't even gonna get a chance to prepare for this
I'ma break you down so fuckin' bad you gon' offer me your whole second half to become your new therapist
Now you call yourself a thot
And you want the whole world to know that you sick with the head
But the truth is Yoshi you not, you just sick in the head
But see, I think it all started from when your step pops told you to get in the bed
And he took it too far one night when he went to tickle ya-
Now I'ma keep it right there

{Clips to the crowd}
I'ma tell you what's funny. This ain't even a true story, but now y'all make it feel like it is. So I like that

Now I'ma keep it right there
Cause my mission in this round is not to embarrass her
See it's for me to get deep into her mind to figure out what made her want to be a Super Mario Brother character
Oh this shit is insane
I know she don't wanna revisit the pain
But I bought us all first class tickets so let's take this trip down memory lane
To the night you was a little girl

{Lady in the crowd yells up to Charlie and Charlie responds}
You good?
I mean, that's them talkin' baby girl that ain't even me
But you can't complain too much cause you done got in for free
So you can chill. Aye c'mon I wanna get this shit over with

I wanna go back to that night you was a scared little girl
You was about to go cry and go sit in the rain
'Til you ran past your little brother room and you heard him playin' a videogame
You heard {Charlie starts humming the Super Mario Bros theme song}
So Yoshi opened the door
Your brother was playin' Super Mario Brother that's a fact
You seen a dinosaur, stick his tongue and eat a bunch of niggas and you said, "I wanna be just like that."
You've been eatin' niggas ever since
The name "Yoshi" never fell in ya lap
You are a victim and an abuser, but you just put on one hell of an act
You shoot at niggas and you shoot at yourself, and you do it with one hell of a MAC
And what's crazy is, Yoshi was born with a shell in his back
Not to hold you, but pay attention Yoshi I'm tryin' to mold you
I'm not Mario bitch, I'm more like Wario, I will fold you
Smack you off the screen before the new Nintendo could upload you
I don't know what mushroom they sold you but you gettin' big headed Princess and I done told you
You a fuckin' hoe

{Charlie starts talking to the crowd}
Oh don't worry, don't worry, don't worry. I gotta pick up the steam after that dry ass round. Don't talk to her like that? I'm sorry, but she's a fuckin' hoe. You said don't talk to her like that? You know? You wanna fuckin' know?

Cause in 2005 Nintendo made a game called Yoshi Touch & Go
Now, after findin' out all this information, which one of you niggas wanna get ass from her?
You got a sibling? Well bring them cause Yoshi like to Smash Brothers
I ain't gonna-
Hold up, y'all know what? I'm so motherfuckin' mean with it
Since this Yoshi and I kinda look like Mario I might as well do
(A whole 'nother scheme with it!)
Bitch I'm extra nice
You tried to disrespect my sex game, that got me extra tight
This dick already brought you to a new stage, respect the pipe
I heard you fertile as shit so I gotta make sure the condom fit extra tight
Cause Lord knows if I bust One Up in it, that's an Extra Life
You named yourself "Yoshi", bitch your career was bad from the start
Bringin' video games into real life is kinda bad for ya heart
All you wanna do is suck dick and drive and rip a Magnum apart
Yoshi throwin' back bananas, shit look like Mario Kart
Aye, I know what y'all thinkin'
Like, "Here go Clips with a big ole grip gettin' his Duck Hunting with a big ole fifth"
I'm tryin' to pull a plug on Yoshi make a Nintendo glitch
New cartridge, did y'all even see the Nintendo Switch?
I could do this shit all day
Peep this! Y'all remember I'm the controller
Well this the remix
Cause she start trouble and then she wanna select who she beef wit'
Aye Beasley, her head go up and down, left/right, it's like a speedbag
I didn't even get the chop' in my house, I got it while I was in D pad

{The crowd starts yelling "Leave her alone!"}

[Clips]
Alight, alright, alright, alright
Leave her alone?
Alight, alright, alright, alright
For all my niggas in Charlotte, I'ma end this round and say it's over
I just wanted this little bitch to know, don't disrespect me, I'm the controller
So now y'all know about Yoshi, she could never be a soldier
And if this cartridge blowin' I just hope y'all in the crowd can console her
RoundEmbed