112 ContributorsWAKA Lyrics[Verse 1: A Boogie Wit Da Hoodie]
Catch an asthma attack, the way we pull up on ya
Put the pump to his chest, make a nigga cough up
You a bum and you stressed, and that's why you lost her
Met a nigga from the X, niggas need to boss up
She gon' eat, you want beef, but this ain't no burger
All my songs on repeat, that's what's up, your word up
I was young with the heat, walkin' 'round with burners
Wishin' I could wish for anything like Timmy Turner

[Bridge: A Boogie Wit Da Hoodie]
Na-na-oh, nah-oh
Na-na-oh, nah-oh
Na-na-oh, nah-oh

[Chorus: A Boogie Wit Da Hoodie]
Why this bitch tryna play me? Are you crazy?
Pocket rocket in my cargos, like the Navy
Put this Tommy to his brain, please, like he Brady
Heartbreakin' on the daily, can you save me?
Why is bitches tryna play me? Are you crazy?
I can't let her have my baby, you not my baby
I can't let her have my baby, I'm actin' shady
Heartbreaking on the daily, can you save me?

[Verse 2: 6ix9ine]
Y'all gotta move, give me some room, I'm 'bout to shoot
Boom! Everybody runnin' out the room
Boom! Everybody beggin' "Don't shoot"
Boom! Nigga, who the fuck asked you?
You a bum, are you dumb? Try me, I got this gun
Run, nigga, if I'm here, don't come
Bitch, you was expectin' for me to hit
That's a dub, I know you put a hole in that shit
You might also like[Verse 3: A Boogie Wit Da Hoodie]
Sawed off in the damn drawer
Got the .30 in my drawers, gotta hold my pants up
Only time she ever call is for the banana
I don't even check my call log, I don't answer

[Chorus: A Boogie Wit Da Hoodie]
Why this bitch tryna play me? Are you crazy?
Pocket rocket in my cargos, like the Navy
Put this Tommy to his brain, please, like he Brady
Heartbreakin' on the daily, can you save me?

[Verse 4: 6ix9ine]
Why this bitch tryna play me? Is she crazy?
That bitch know I'm number one, like Tracy McGrady
Know I got this .380, it's on safety
I know all these niggas hate me, won't let it faze me
Fuck nigga

[Verse 5: A Boogie Wit Da Hoodie]
I'ma swerve in the Maybach, I'ma do some damage
Niggas sit the fuck down if you don't understand us
I heard niggas talkin' 'bout they gon' run down on us
Pull up windows down in the fuckin' Lamb' truck

[Outro: A Boogie Wit Da Hoodie]
Na-na-na-na-na-na-na
Na-na-na-na-na-na-na
Na-na-na-na-na-na-na
Na-na-na-na-na-na-na, yeah
Scott Storch24Embed