37 ContributorsGrown Man Sport Lyrics[Verse 1: Ras G]
Natty Dread like Bob, so rock steady
With no spaghetti with meat sauce
Maybe salads with one toss
No bread of the sorrow 'cause afraid to see tomorrow
It's religion, never suspicious
But too delicious for the tongue
See, the lungs breathe the natural high
Just like the shirts that's so lovely
So ask Marco Polo and I never go solo
Because I roll with the crew that keep the funk flows
That make ya dance until the sisters take glance
I hope you find romance... try your luck, take a chance
'Til I enter, like the Milton Plaza, I'm the center
Of it all, the fuckin' prince of the ball
Standin' six-feet tall, that's a long way to fall
But not worried 'cause my vision ain't blurry
The I's hotter than the spice and curry
So don't stress the Father, or you might feel the fury

[Verse 2: Grap Luva]
So check the situation, a raw deal is what we're facin'
Bust the flavors of the rules they mandatin'
The climate gets hotter as the city gets smaller, more squalors
A million and one cats, they tryin' to earn top dollar
Half that mill, they straight out to kill
Uncultivated and destined to act real ill
Black let up in the things of five boroughs of pain
Only reason why the East and the West it ain't the same
I'm twenty-somethin' years of age
And life surely ain't about hand-outs, so I lays my plan out
Hard work is levicated to an art called survival
Consider Jah's lesson from conception to arrival
Now that I'm here, my fears shall decrease
Learnin' about life, makin' my way to the East
From four-square yard struggler, the G's on time
Yo, God, hit me with that rhyme
You might also like[Verse 3: Rob-O]
In-tro-ducin' the R-to-the-O-B-O, you didn't know
I witness ya thoughts, I'm Rob Odindo
But your intentions confuse me on the surface
You're nervous, because you lack a purpose
Check it! Thought about it.. much, much later
Should've kept it real, would've been much greater
But, you got in it like a pussy
In fact, bein' pussy kept your wack-ass back
Now, in '95 to 2000, Rob is on some next shit, game tight
Yeah, in your heart, you know it ain't right
Ascension among the ranks
I'm givin' thanks to the Most High for plantin' me firm
Upon this world that's forever changin'
The conflict that I'm engagin'
The constant riff and miscommunication
Imagine that — me take the weight for some next kid's short
Yo, it's a Grown Man Sport

[Hook: Pete Rock]
Yeah, yeah! Like that, uh!
(Laah-laaaaaah, la-la-laaaaaaaah)
It's a Grown Man Sport, yeah!
(La-la-laaaaaaaah, la-laaaaaah, la-la-laaaaaaaaaaah)
It's a Grown Man Sport, come on!
(Laaah-laaaaaah, la-la-la-laaaaaaaah)
It's a Grown Man Sport
(La-la-laaaaaaaah, la-laaaaaah, la-la-laaaaaaaaaaah)
This here is a Grown Man Sport, yeah!
[Verse 4: Mekolicious]
Hold it! Suppose it was me speakin' on tapes
To create a lifestyle to marinate
Different latitudes, search cocaine to food
Excuse my move to bliss, eternal stress and fits
I see the same in many
Penny thoughts 'cause plenty thought I wasn't ready and willin'
Now I'm blowin' through the ceilin'!
Go real, only when a nigga make any noise
So figure, the first letter supports the sport

[Verse 5: Marco Polo]
Enfin Séraphin, pieds fins
InI — les nouveaux prophètes de la scène mondiale, oui!
Que voulez vous faire nous tester? Je ne crois pas!
Pense à deux fois, mon frère
It's a Grown Man Sport, keep it real
C'est pas chouette dans mon livre là
InI est ici pour vivre toujours
Je prie le grand maître Selassie roi des rois chaque soir
Alors..

[Hook: Pete Rock]
Come on...
(Laah-laaaaaah, la-la-laaaaaaaah)
It's a Grown Man Sport
(La-la-laaaaaaaah, la-laaaaaah, la-la-laaaaaaaaaaah)
What? It's a Grown Man Sport, yeah-yeah!
(Laah-laaaaaah, la-la-laaaaaaaah)
Uh! It's a Grown Man Sport
(La-la-laaaaaaaah, la-laaaaaah, la-la-laaaaaaaaaaah)
Yeah! It's a Grown Man Sport, like that!
[Outro: Pete Rock]
This one goin' out
Dedicate this one yaselves, to the Almighty God, Jah!
Rastafari Selassie
InI
As we come out for '95, '96
Jah live! Respect!4Embed