4 ContributorsRum Nitty vs. Danny Myers (Rematch) Lyrics[Round 1: Rum Nitty]
Ya dawg is gettin' bodied
Just talk to my nigga Swave, they're gonna be callin' this a Homi
To Live And Die In L.A.?
I stop the coin before we 'Toss It Up'...
And 'Bomb First'; Don Killumini
Off the rip, believe he dyin', a clean sweep
Three-peat, I got the cheat sheet rhymin'
They say the alien be sittin' on bars

[Crowd] Like E.T. ridin'!

[Rum Nitty]
You don't even stand a chance
Get smoked like that then the do' slide back on the Astro van
You let Tay disrespect you and yo' fam'
You got the battle, but Roc crossed you with thе Face-Off like the And1 man
I'ma show you what thеse hands do for any fan who doubt
So as you say, "It's 'Hammer Time'!"
One hit, puttin' Dan(ce) smooth out
You get me on that verge you'll (Virgil) die
I'll blow the pole that I'm packin', that pride'll (Prada) get you put on a shirt
You know how it happens, a whole different fabric
He gotta do his best to adapt or (Dapper) Dan finna go out in a fashion
Average
There's flaws in yo' style that I analyze
You can't be callin' yourself "the GOAT" if I am alive
And I'm on my job
I'll give you a Nipsey Hussle B.E.T. Award slide
'Victory Lap', my right hand to God
My young shooter? He be off the powder, you'll get back doored
He a snake off the Tony, Bro, but he don't jump on camera and talk about it
I'll clap you in public, up it, buck it
Then put the steel in (stealin') the belt right after he Stumbles
Big man will hear these shots and be runnin'
Long K
And this bitch Grande, and she think 'God Is A Woman'
That name flip is dangerous, I can rearrange him
Literally take "Dan" apart
Leave him in different places like my trigger fingers need A and (N) D
Believe they really itch
Might have to sign an NDA
Believe I'll steal his shit
Dump 80 in, knock DNA outta Dan, that's gonna have the DA in the mix
Still equipped
And this should turn you from a little bitch...right into (writing to) a dead man like Willow Smith
I'd have killed P for that Vicky shit
Grabbed him up and said, "Last performance ever Mike."
This Is It
You gettin' chipped
That boy startled you
You ain't want no parts of dude
I would've had something for Mike (four Mic) and (in) a magazine, like a Source article
I'm warnin' you
Do not get on my bad side
I give my shooter a fast jive
Plug him in, with a few gigs, like a flash drive
Fam' died, I pick apart humans
You think you better than me (demi)? You don't know the half, God
Fuck a squad
By myself I handle a clown
We ain't gotta jump, just shoot; Karl-Anthony Towns
Why Danny Myers and not an alien?
You dumb as shit
Why you put all yo' business in the street, for your opponents just to run with it?
You said, you was in a war with CPS for the custody of ya kids
Parallel Universe
Yet still usin' his real name while they was battlin' wit' the government
Fuck is this?
What you lookin' all awkward for?
You the one that said Vicky was on the Bobbie like The Waterboy
Stop the noise
When Tay said, "Fuck Vicky", you should've snuffed him out
Smacked him
Then told Roc, "Keep my wife name out yo' fuckin' mouth!"
You'se a fuckin' clown
Cuz turned yo' daughter to pizza, that was savage mode
Clap the pole
Have Dominos underground like Michelangelo
That was cold
You can't keep it real yoself
Suicide or I'll do the job, you decide
Kill yoself
You might also like[Round 1: Danny Myers]
The greatest that ever did this
I claim that
I flame cats
If I can't be the GOAT, cause you still alive...it's time for me to change that
Bitch ass muhfucka
He 'bout to catch Llama lead
Soon as he said that Waterboy shit...I gotta kill him, cause my mama said
Bar God!
They thought I would go light cause that's the homie when
They wasn't knowin' my past felonious
Bad bologna and moldy cheese, molded me into thinkin' like a Babylonian
Grab the .40 and get it clear
Y'all seen Paul
First the alien gets smoked, stopped breathin', then disappeared
I'm in a different gear
You triggered it, there's no end to this
I got extended clip, on the extended clip on the extended clip on the-
(Damn how many though?)
Let's just say I got it in for Nit' (infinite)
Witnesses
Sometimes it just be a feelin'
Last time a demon jumped in, it possessed me to kill him
Peel him
Some scores are hard to settle
Mr. Gun Line brought a Drac (Drake) to Uncharted levels
I'm the God and Devil
The top of the mystery, I conquer for centuries
Before dinosaurs became fossils in history
Before Darwinism, I was in the ocean, tell op' he a (tilapia) fish to me
I am the evolution of battle rap
I gotta bring him Hell for all my niggas who couldn't evolve past
Gettin' caught up with DNA and winding up in a single cell
I heard you swing 'em well
I commence to whippin' dawg ass
He won't know which bone I broke
But once they get the news it'll be a broad cast (broadcast)
Niggas got robbed fast
We took wallets, cell phones, didn't care if it was all weed
I'm just sayin'
My niggas was Pocket Bullies before the dog breed
They got locked up, broke out, I'm like, "I know those felons"
They hit two C.O.'s in the head with the baby, that's CocoMelon
I had boatloads sellin'
My type revenue, high revenue that I never knew
You got the nice setup, tight sweater, made choices you might never do
It was twelve of my dogs in one week, but the finish line is what ice (s)led us to
I'm tellin' you
My stomach achin', my hood was like the Olympics
Nigga shot a gun in the air, it put us in position to run in places
Some embraced it
Let me catch you up to speed
My killers is grimy
By the time the beat relayed to me, I passed the pole to the nigga behind me
Try me
StreetSweeper, you'll get AK smoke
Even after you die the K(ay) Slay ghost
You want the Drama, King?
I told you I'd catch up to ya and shoot ya
Lima bean in a time- BAOW! Welcome to the Future!
'I Never Liked You'
I'm on a crusade with a new blade for the hunt
Split him in half then spit a multi versus a man who can be in two places at once
Vacation for what?
I was in Mexico on some other shit
How he the alien?
I was with illegal aliens who literally had their mother's shipped
How he the alien?
I was the one in DC with laser sight
Flyin' with speedin' bullets 'til I made a right
Throwin' 'cane on the lower (Lois) Lane on each street then I retreat to a fortress that I made from ice
Trust in me!
Fuck Champion Of The Year
I'm champion of the culture
You ain't gotta flashback to that match...just this (Justice) League
They gave me the Crip tonight (Kryptonite)
Drum and the K squeeze
'Life's A Bitch' and then you die
You should've known that comin' from AZ
The Firm grip, is in my Nature, look in my enemy's eyes
When I asked about this rematch they was givin' me "Naaahs" (Nas)
We supposed to be brothers y'all
But he made all that money and he cut us off
But if you look at the word "Nitty" close enough...you're recognize the double cross
I'm a fuckin' boss
I'm a kingpin, you a misdemeanor
Alien? I'll Trump that, there's a wall of bricks between us
He gripped his heater, I snatched it like, "Bitch, this mine."
Disarm (this arm) an alien like District 9
Just in time, his people, pleadin', panickin', like "Please, he's family."
I could murder him with the .30 or just kill him 2-1 and plead insanity
I got a gang of shit
We supposed to be gang and shit
But the money came and removed those doors
Now this will a point (disappoint) to where niggas ain't even cool no more
You ain't been through no wars
He on the ground with this shit
This wack MC got another two rounds of this shit
Yikes!
[Round 2: Rum Nitty]
Aye!
Out the cut, I only pop up when I'm ready
I'll pop him with the Desi
Talkin' 'bout he gave me "Naaahs" (Nas)
{gun clicks}
Until I hit God's Son in the belly
Aye, that nigga's bars shook up the place
Should've seen the look on my face
I mean, I don't have extended clip after extended clip and it's not infinite
But if I hold it to the sideways, it look like an .8
I can't lie, I admit
You've been rappin' so long you say shit like, "Weapon Z"...it's time to quit
You've been rhymin' since Smack DVD
And back then they didn't invite you in
Cats didn't need (eat) him
They couldn't get Daniel in the lions (Lionz) Den
You put your life into this shit really
You wasn't on Fight Klub but you probably gonna be rhymin' until you hit 60
Beasley, he don't hit you back when you want to plate, that's a lose/lose
They barely give you scratch, they just use you
He got bad table manners, he can't get on SMACK when he choose to
This a fight back moment, I like that, I'm tryin' to make your life span shorter
Black Compass said you might spaz on me
I told Bro, "Let's see how defensive you are for him after they Mic Dan, Tony (Mike D'Antoni)
My last opponent, didn't even see it comin'
I just crept up and offed Nunn
Different Covid strains, with a mask, that's exactly how I caught none (Nunn)
Nitty reckless, with plenty extras
I can leave a nigga stretched, without any effort
I done hit different levels
Ascended
You don't think I can see DM pendin'? I ain't get the message
Okay Dan
A lima bean in a time machine...it ain't no way fam'
It ain't make sense
I come through on a bike you get chipped
Make you a vegetable with a stick like the elote man
I ain't finna play wit' him
We gonna do this the FN way, park the Mercedes Benz
Hop out, so fired (sofi) up, in front of where you stay DM (stadium)
If a nigga try, lift a .9
Wave it at him when he gettin' loud
His reaction when it hit his spine was "Yikes!"
"AAAAHHHH!"
"I'm too cold!"
Then he died!
We really slide!
If a nigga wanna play I'm doggin' him
He can't win, this shit hot enough to break thermometers
He gonna try to pull it off and get violated like an ankle monitor
Bomb on him
We get to scrappin' in the street
I get mad and get the heat
But them finding dan deceased (dandis), will make me happy as can be
Stomach shot, clap you wit' a piece
If you ever caught a round through your bowels (bow) befo' God, this shit will have you on your knees
But peep
Aye, my first codefendant, did not fold on me, that's my patna
They pinned everything on him, he never old, he not a talker
Stitch lip, on Crip, my co-d (Kody) was a Monster
We get all him, soon as they see Danny, stretch him
Catch him
Let the .8 (ate) off next (necks), like a candy necklace
Surgeon's workin' to put his shit back in sections
They had to force a plate in his face...like he anorexic
Reckless
I'ma bury him, embarrassin'
Take the metal and crack his face 'til it start to Cave like I'm from Maryland
No comparison
They just don't get it, until somebody die, it's like inheritance
They want the old school me
The punchline back to back one
The M.O.P. ya 'Ante Up', the rappin' hella fast one
Well new Nitty? Fam' done
Pour some Don Q in the street for that one and welcome back the Ave Rum
Damn son
You can't keep it real yourself
Suicide or I'll do the job, you decide...
[Round 2: Danny Myers]
When he rap, niggas get the chills
I'm like, "Really nigga? Get for real."
Bitch, I'll shoot, pass it to my nigga
If there's an inheritance we gon' split the mil'
Bar God
I can hit him with the deuce deuce
I know it ain't a new tool
But I'm the truth with this aim...and I put it on Crip, like you do
Do you think you and Geechi have the culture in an uproar?
What's the most negative thing from two Crips splittin' 150 from a Drac (Drake)?
Blood poor (pour)
I love war
You think wearin' designer make you rappin' elite?
You got the Cuban link Versace shoes?
Step into a chain reaction wit' me
Maniac wit' a piece
Crazy accurate reach
Play me backwards and see
Dude clearly can never prove he was lyrically better
This a new Sumerian, Lucifierian lecture
If you can hear me than gesture
You should feel the aggressor
After all that, some conclude, "Danny, there's no difference between Rum and you."
Well that's cool, but let me see if this drum 100 proof
We can run it too
I was never the nigga that they played with
You'll get a Smack and punch between the battles like Shea Davis
I raise bangers, catch two to the frame
Crack the alien exterior only the human remains
I never joined a crew or a gang, but if I got a roll call
I got OG's that be knockin' O's off, downin' young niggas on the honor roll with the mind of O-Dog
I gotta show y'all
It can be an old lady with a fanny pack that stretchin' him
They gave me a Crip, not knowin' this bitch is handicap accessible
Danny reps incredible
I've done it masterfully from the start
I crush Roc(k) and made my name like Master P cover art
You a fuckin' mark
If you did have dope, we wouldn't know
Heaters blow
Disconnect his jaw, it's like the Tesla car
The handle come out automatic once the nigga with the key (ki') approach
But I had meetings though
In a Holiday Inn, of course we don't stay
If Feds kick in this do' they gon' record me on tape
They ain't seen this much snow in a hotel since John Cusack checked into 1408
Bar God!
When I was hustlin', it was my ingenuity that got us far
Niggas had stash houses but I was smart
I had to show 'em how to put the base underground like Bob Lazar
A squad of cars, pull up with beams and sights
Everybody pointin' at the same thing like the Phoenix Lights
Tappin' each other on the shoulder like, "You seen it right?"
He the type to act gangsta, but I know you a buster
A precise shot from a high top will expose his true colors
Bitch!
Every bar gettin' scary for ya
People go crazy when this shit touch they ears like Mary brother
I come to attack with the pack mobbin'
Grab the guns then I smack 'til his mouth slobbin'
Watch Rum runnin' out, then I backwash him
I'll hurt this cat boxin'
We ain't gotta blast no triggers
We put niggas to sleep before the static, we mash on niggas
Our cast don't feel him
I ain't the only one the issue's revealed to
It's a bunch of us in a crew
But it's four bidding (forbidden) to kill you
Peel you, we sprayin' Rum
I don't care what planet he a native of
Fuck gettin' kicked out the group, a K and drum is what the alien ate it (alienated) from
I ain't gon' debate wit' Rum
Bitch I earn enough respect
Mr. King Of The Rematches
In front of the nigga that'll give him sudden death
You ain't got nothin' left
And he on the ground with this shit
This wack MC got a whole 'nother round of this shit
Yikes!

[Round 3: Rum Nitty]
That last round was half past weak
Y'all praise him like a god though, thinkin' fam' can't bleed
I up a MAC, y'all gon' hear a black man scream
Even drop the water on stage when it got pulled (pooled) then it got the flash Dan (Flash Dance) scene
Nah, y'all gon' make me do it, keep an automatic gauge for goofies
The only time Dan see (dancing) with a sweeper is the Breaking movie
You know he smoke
In the ER, comatose
Can't move; polio
Docs tryin' to see if this fool (full) body will work; portfolio
I done sold dope befo'
From off the brick to grams of shake, (grandmas shake) like the Holy Ghost
The blicks got rays and switches
Impala, two K's (2K)
Go through a brick wall; pick dodger
Got paid, and the choppers got bigger, the rich Holla
No holdin' (hole in) hands, they gonna say you did this to yourself; stigmata
Roc treated you like a hoe and you did not fight back
You bitched up for sure when it got physical for him (form)...and we ain't never seen God like that
Fuck if it's battle rap, certain shit I ain't gonna allow
No room for saving you now
Back up, I'ma do you foul (file), send you straight to the clouds
BAOW!
Somethin' out the MAC'll fly
Clapped him, put his whole (hole) clique (click) in a box; the Window maximized
Uncontrollable situations where we had to slide
Flooded the block like a natural disaster (Dizaster), I'm really active (Aktive) (an active of), God
If he try? Show him how a MAC-10 work
I'ma leave Parallel on the side of the street, I just gotta get my backend (back in) first
You get murked!
You like to freestyle and rebuttal like you Jin? Cool
Old Glock, I'll let it go off the top, it's a Jin too (gen' two)
I meant to say, "I'll let this off (soft) It's gentle."
And I'll pop one, to keep me from dyin' like a Senzu
This bitch through
You battle rap every seven days
I know the shit not easy, but Word Up you killed your Vibe doin' too much Hip Hop Weekly
Fuck is he thinking?
Run up on me? I'ma clap this lame fucker
Same spot he thought he caught me slippin' is where Danny lay (Danileigh) brother
Muhfucka better give me room
.50 boom
Give it to him
He on the ground with this shit, like John Witherspoon
You better get in tune
We was taught to watch the ones that dress plain
Cause they was the ones wired up
Got the pack off the Greyhound, and use the razor to make the China bus(t)
I'll line you up
I really did him dirty, lift a .30
I just paid my shooter a band, Dan'll (bandana) get a couple holes in him like a Ninja Turtle
That was dirty
You can't keep it real yourself
Nigga, suicide or I'll do the job...

[Round 3: Danny Myers]
He hasn't seen mean
Once I got The Source the clip was XXL, take away his Essence to the name of hip hop, now that's a magazine scheme
I'm too cold nigga
There are those that do this
And there are those that are born to do this
I know what the Loc be spittin' is dope
But don't keep givin' him votes
Especially when considerin' when you here with the GOAT you lowkey hearin' a ghost
Those deep lyrical quote multi-syllable rhyme patterns don't be typical flows
My soul leaves this dimensional whole which is the reason most these niggas whole mind-shattering
Time traveling, back to my past, I was set up for liberal purpose
My repertoire set up before I ever met a physical person
Oooh!
It's the level of our passion, ain't it?
Hard to judge the heart of a god when part of them God, back when Karl Kani jackets was a fashion statement
Fuck his "get off the ropes", it's more than clearer
They pay me like a mere mortal
When I appear portals veer to morph the crowd into styles that these mortals mirror
Let this moment be the moment
If every time that we notice that they controlling the lever of climbin'
Those with say-so say "no" to me battling giants
In an attempt to make ghosts that can't go against my brain code to keep a narrative thrivin'
To sleep on a nigga with the highest level of rhymin'
Embedded inside him, that's what I am
In my life time, I'll be the best we known
In my death, I'll spit scriptures to see the Dead Sea (see) Scrolls
And yet he chose, to beef with God
I'll redefine the feat this time
Keep in mind, Hercules beef with God
He was Greek, so when he get fried
We'll look at his ashes, stand back and see if a Phoenix rise
In any spot
He ain't even gotta give me props
I'll show you, I directed the Alien, I'm Ridley Scott
Oooooh!
I wasn't the first time you assault from a crowd?
Before you stood in front of the motor (Mulder) in that skully (Scully) that X'd from all of them Files?
The people didn't know what they see way far into the clouds
You ain't never use a Parallel Universe or bit my style?
Wooow!
You gon' need the same technology Egyptians used to build artifacts
You gon' need a ray gun, bullet proof helmet, when them AR's attack
Bars is back
You know why I use that Egyptian tech, right?
They gotta give me Lux or (Luxor) admit I'm in the same trajectory as daylight (Daylyt)
I don't play fight
They scared to stand in rank with a leader
Fuck your skill
Force field, there's a clear separation between us
The highest truth, the branch of all this shit...I'm the root
Before B. Dot got his branding deal, I stepped in Messiah's shoes
They call me, "an old man"
It was all simple 'til now
I figured it out, most these niggas is clowns
Cause I'm here in the future, here with the clown
Somehow we made it to this app era and these niggas got the games set up for one-dimensional rounds
So Ni' (Sony)
I meant kneel
I'm still fightin' the, fact that
Y'all niggas think y'all got somethin' real in front of me
It hurts when you gotta kill your own brother
We should've left it there
We go back like four flats
We should've kept it there
Now weapons flare
It's fucked up when you gotta put your own brother in the trunk but I'm the one that felt the spare (despair)
But there's a lesson there
I got this shit in a firm tight grip
How the fuck is he the alien and he ain't never left Earth like this?
You ain't never spit a verse like this
And he on the ground with this shit
Thank the Lord he ain't got another round of this shitEmbed